1. refactoring nem változtatja meg a fingerprintet (illustrate with images)
2. átnevezés (tplx megváltoztatja a fingerprintet)(change előtt lefuttat tlx-el)(change után is)(a fingerprint jó)
3. új event (protocol implementáció lecserél)(fingerprint megváltozik)(change előtt NID lefuttat)(change után is)(a fingerprint jó)
3.5 filterezés (valami elrontja de nem számít ezért kihagy)(pl visualizer eventek?)
4. amikor a NID is megváltozik (pl új protocol implementáció új protocol feature-ökkel)

0. create a csv file (how does it even work? add a git repo?) HOGY FOGJÁK KIPRÓBÁLNI? csv az eredeti (change-ek előtti) fingerprintekkel
ha megváltoztatják a dolgokat akkor megváltozik a fingerprint

fingerprintshowcase.csv -> a fingerprint folderben (vagy a showcase folderben)

1. some network with udp. refactor the udp. maybe something that fits in one screen. no change

changes in the code can ruin the fingerprints in multiple simulations not just the one that someone is working on / used in the showcase as an example

videos of the whole process?


update

so actually, there is a working base thing checked in the repo
then everyone makes the described changes on their own
there is a detailed description as to how to make these changes (illustrate the steps)
and show that the fingerprints change...or not



so

should illustrate the fingerprint changes with just one simulation (though it changes the fingerprint for others)

1,2,3 -> use the same network (general...wireless + wired and something happens?)
4 -> use Dimensional instead of scalar? that doesn't change the implementation, it uses a different model (a good example is the new 802.11 MAC)
-> dimensional-be kicserél realistic signal shape-re boxcarról

1: some code that fits into one screen/screenshot
2: change the name of a host for example
3: change from scalar to dimensional
3.5: can the same be used? exclude the radio
4:

star topology: there is a central base config + default tplx fingerprint
and there are changes

HOW TO PRESENT THIS

-pl wifi -> wifi authentikáció nélkül -> FP nem jó -> ki kell hagyni az elejét (ha lehet ilyet?)
