Recent changes in the INET Framework
====================================

INET-4.2.5 (May 18, 2021) - Stable
----------------------------------

This release contains:

  - Compatibility fixes for OMNeT++ 6.0 Preview 11.
  - Fixed default type names for 802.15.4 transmitter and receiver.
  - Fixed worng statechange signal in Radio
  - Fixed crash in rare cases when accessing receptionTimer.


INET-4.2.4 (May 6, 2021) - Stable
---------------------------------

This release contains fixes for linker errors on Windows.


INET-4.2.3 (April 22, 2021) - Stable
------------------------------------

This release contains compatibility fixes for OMNeT++ 6.0 Preview 11.


INET-4.2.2 (January 7, 2021) - Stable
-------------------------------------

This release contains a fix to build properly on Windows with OMNeT++ 6.0 Preview 10.


INET-4.2.1 (October 2020) - Stable
----------------------------------

This release contains a compatibility fix to be able to build INET with
OMNeT++ 6.0 Preview 9. It requires OMNeT++ 5.4.1 or later.

NOTE: OMNeT++ 6.0 Preview 5-8 will NOT work with this releasre. Use INET 4.2.0
with those versions or rather upgrade your OMNeT++ installation.


INET-4.2 (January 2020) - Stable
--------------------------------

This is a new minor stable release of the INET 4.x branch. This version includes
a few important new features, some backward incompatible changes, a number of small
improvements, and several bug fixes. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.5.1 or later.

Notable backward incompatible changes are the following:

1. Representation of radio signals

   The multidimensional (in terms of space, time, and frequency) analog domain
   representation of radio signals in the physical layer has been substantially
   changed. The old multidimensional mathematical function implementation, which
   was originally inherited from MiXiM, has been replaced with a completely new
   implementation. The reason behind this change is that the old implementation
   had several non-trivial open bugs, it was often 10+ times slower than the
   equivalent scalar signal representation, and due to its iterator-based API
   and its eager computational nature, it was less composable and extensible.

   The new implementation is capable of representing all kinds of radio signals
   such as OFDM, FHSS, UWB, etc. It also allows mixing these wireless technologies
   arbitrarily. The new API is more flexible in terms of composition, and it
   allows arbitrary extensions to be combined with existing representations.

   The new implementation has better performance than the old one both in terms
   of memory usage and execution speed. Thanks to the usage of shared pointers,
   it scales well to large networks with a small memory footprint and is easy
   to maintain and use. It also has comparable execution speed to the equivalent
   scalar signal representation. Futhermore, it allows the visualization of the
   power spectral desnsity of individual signals and the transmission medium in
   Qtenv.

   Simulation models which use the old C++ API will not compile, and need to be
   updated.

   The transmitter timeGains and frequencyGains NED parameters, which determine
   the signal power over time and frequency, have been changed in the various
   dimensional radio models. The new synax is more expressive and more user
   friendly. The changed interpretation of these NED parameters will cause
   an error in existing simultations that use it.

   See the presentation from the OMNeT++ Community Summit 2019:
   https://summit.omnetpp.org/2019/assets/pdf/math.pdf

2. Queueing model

   A new top-level source folder containing a new queueing model package has
   been added. The new queueing model provides reusable modules for various
   application areas. These modules can be used to build application traffic
   generators, queueing models for MAC protocols, traffic conditioning models
   for quality of service implementations, and so on.

   The queueing model contains several different kinds of elements: sources,
   sinks, queues, buffers, filters, servers, classifiers, schedulers, etc.
   Some of the queueing elements were already present in INET, but most of them
   are written from scratch. The most important change is that the queueing model
   became synchronous by default, primarily in order to avoid event race conditions
   in complex queueing models, and also to increase performance by eliminating
   simulation events. The User's Guide has been extended with a relevant chapter.

   This change results in compilation errors and NED errors in simulation models
   which use the old queueing model. You may look at changes to existing MAC
   protocols to see how to update your code.

3. MAC protocols and DiffServ

   All MAC protocols have been updated to use the new queueing model for their
   transmission queues in a very similar way. All protocols have been extended
   with a replaceable queue submodule, even in the default case, so there's no
   internal queue anymore. Different queue length parameters have been removed
   from MAC modules, because complex transmission queues may have all sorts of
   parameters rendering the MAC queue length parameters useless.

   The DiffServ implementation has also been updated to use the new queueing model.

   These changes may cause existing models to silently produce different simulation
   results, because some module parameters such as txQueueLimit and queueLength
   MAC protocol parameters no longer exist.

4. Packet API

   The interpretation of the Chunk API length parameter for negative values has
   been changed in the peek() and has() functions. The old version interpreted
   the value -1 as any length. The new version interprets negative values as any
   length up to the absolute value of the parameter. The change was required to
   properly implement the Chunk serialization API for all edge cases.

   This change may result in incorrect behavior silently if the -1 parameter
   value was used explicitly. Generally, that is not expected to cause a problem
   because these APIs are not normally used in models.

   The non-template versions of peekAtBack(), popAtBack(), and removeAtBack()
   in the Packet class has been changed to require the length parameter. The
   reason being that deserialization is only supported forwards, so there's no
   way of knowing the length when a raw packet is used.

   This change may result in compilation errors in existing code.

5. IEEE 802.11 (WiFi)

   The IEEE 802.11 model has been changed to have explicit modules for both the
   PendingQueue and the InProgressFrames. Futhermore, several submodules of the
   Hcf module have been moved to the Edcaf module to better reflect their usage.

   Throughout the 802.11 model has also been extended with several new signals
   and statistics. The ACK handling mechanism in QoS mode has been fixed.

   Several parts of the IEEE 802.11 frame have been renamed to be consistent with
   the naming scheme:

   Ieee80211DataFrame -> Ieee80211DataHeader
   Ieee80211DataOrMgmtFrame -> Ieee80211DataOrMgmtHeader
   Ieee80211ManagementHeader -> Ieee80211MgmtHeader
   Ieee80211ManagementFrame -> Ieee80211MgmtFrame
   Ieee80211Frame -> Ieee80211MacHeader
   Ieee80211OneAddressFrame -> Ieee80211OneAddressHeader
   Ieee80211TwoAddressFrame -> Ieee80211TwoAddressHeader
   Ieee80211ACKFrame -> Ieee80211AckFrame
   Ieee80211RTSFrame -> Ieee80211RtsFrame
   Ieee80211CTSFrame -> Ieee80211CtsFrame

   Most simulations are not affected, because the external interface of the
   802.11 MAC has not been changed. Nevertheless, simulations which go deeper
   in the direct parameterization of the 802.11 MAC submodules have to be
   updated.

6. Transmission medium

   The storage mechanism of radios and transmissions has been moved from the
   radio medium module to the communication cache submodule. This allows the
   usage of different strategies for different kinds of networks. For example,
   a dynamic network where radios are created and destroyed dynamically can
   have better performance with a non-default mechanism.

   This change results in compilation errors if the underlying C++ interfaces
   were implemented in user code.

7. Variuos renames

   The carrierFrequency parameters have been renamed to centerFrequency in several
   modules where they were named incorrectly.

   With the addition of the new Ospfv3 implementation, the old OSPF implementation
   has been renamed from Ospf to Ospfv2.

   These changes may require updating the affected simulations.

Notable backward compatible changes are the following:

1. OSPF version 3

   A new OSPF protocol implementation has been added which implements version 3
   of the protocol.

   This feature is a contribution of Lukáš Galbička and Marcel Marek.

2. TCP/IP ECN

   The TCP/IP model has been extended with partial support for Explicit
   Congestion Notification (ECN).

   This feature is a contribution of Marcel Marek and Mohammad HabibAllah.

3. TTL and ToS in sockets

   The UDP and TCP socket options have been extended with time-to-live and
   type-of-service parameters.

   This feature is a contribution of Mani Amoozadeh.

4. Packet API

   The Packet API has also been extended with a PF_ALLOW_EMPTY flag to support
   returning Empty chunks. This feature makes certain algorithms easier to write,
   because the user doesn't have to check for nullptr all over the place.

   The PacketDissector::ICallback interface has been extended with a new callback
   called shouldDissectProtocolDataUnit() for the possibility to stop dissection
   for performance reasons.

5. Physical layer components

   The physical layer dimensional model has been extended with a new NoiseSource
   and a new DimensionalBackgroundNoise module. The former is capable of generating
   noise periodically as a point source with optional mobility. The latter can
   be used to describe a non-isotropic background noise which changes over time
   and frequency.

6. Visualization of radio signals

   The MediumCanvasVisualizer has been extended with the visualization of signal
   power spectrums, signal power spectrograms, and signal power maps. Spectrum
   figures display signal power density over frequency at a given position and
   moment of time. Spectogram figures display signal power density over time and
   frequency at a given position. Power map figures display signal power density
   over space at a given frequency and moment of time.

   All three kinds of figures can be used to display a particular signal or the
   total power density of transmission medium. The new visualization is also
   capable of displaying the above for the currently transmitted or received
   signal automatically while simultaneously comparing it to the total interfering
   signals and noise using color coding. The visualization takes into account the
   directional selectivity of radio antennas.

   A new "network node", called the Probe, allows the visualization of the total
   transmission medium power spectral density at any given location. The latest
   Qtenv supports dragging network nodes with Shift + left mouse click. This
   feature effectively allows the user to explore power spectral density in space
   by simply dragging a probe node.

   See the following example videos:
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyjX03MSi7s
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi1sq23IPYs
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TyYQ53hUrns

7. Visualization of street maps

   The new OpenStreetMapSceneCanvasVisualizer allows displaying an arbitrary
   street map file created by OpenStreetMap as the background of a compound
   module. The configuration is simple: the visualizer takes the map filename
   parameter and the geographic coordinate system takes longitude/latitude
   parameters to specify the origin of the scene.

8. Applications parameterized with traffic generators

   New generic TCP and UDP applications such as UdpApp, TcpClientApp, TcpServerApp
   have been added with composable traffic source and traffic sink components.
   One can implement new behavior by assembling queueing elements. For example,
   new applications can be easily set up to simulate request-response based
   client-server applications (see TcpRequestResponseApp), or a remote terminal
   (see TelnetClientApp/TelnetServerApp).

9. Module initialization

   A new named initialization stage, called INITSTAGE_ROUTER_ID_ASSIGNMENT, has
   been added. The configuration of the router ID has been moved to this stage.

10. Packet serialization and emulation

    New chunk serializers have been added for several protocols. Changed several
    protocol field types and names in MSG files to be more correct. Fixed and
    refactored CRC calculation, CRC mode parameters and handling, CRC insertion
    and verification. Of course, the exact CRC calculation and verification are
    still optional due to performance reasons.

    These changes make the emulation support more feature complete. Most of the
    example simulations are expected to work with serialized packets too. This
    can be simply tested by running the fingerprint tests with the sendRawBytes
    parameters of network interfaces set to true.

11. Regression testing with fingerprint calculation

    A special fingerprint calculator (NetworkCommunicationFingerprintCalculator)
    has been added, which is capable of computing a simulation fingerprint using
    the timing and binary contents of packets sent between network nodes. This
    feature allows easier regression testing for some simulation models if the
    exchanged packets are expected to stay the same. This kind of fingerprint
    ignores all internal details of how the network nodes operate.

12. Documentation

    The User's Guide has been extended with a new chapter on the newly added
    queueing package. It has also been updated with respect to the new generic
    applications.

    A new queueing model tutorial has been added. This tutorial contains very
    minimal explanation, it is rather provided to give a quick glance.

    The tutorial is available at:
    https://inet.omnetpp.org/docs/tutorials/queueing/doc

13. Other minor changes

    Module shutdown operation has been refactored and extended in simulation
    time to allow for graceful closing of TCP connections.

    PCAP recording has been enhanced with automatic network type detection and
    optional packet conversion.

    New PRE and POST module initialization signals have been added for dynamic
    module creation.

    A new WeightedHistogramRecorder has been added which records histograms using
    weighted double values.

    The packet inspector has been enchanced to display the front, back, and data
    parts of packets separately in Qtenv. Furthermore, packet tags and data tags
    are also displayed in children mode.

    All applications have been extended for CreationTimeTag to calculate end-to-end delay.
    Several applications have been extended with ToS and DSCP parameters.
    The ManetRouter has been extended with a parameterizable routingApp submodule.
    The InterfaceEntry module base has been added to all interface modules.
    The MAC protocol base classes have been merged into one.
    Extended the <disconnect> and <set-channel-param> commands in ScenarioManager.
    Added OpenMP support to allow parallel computation for physical signal visualization.
    Added notifications about changing the InterfaceProtocolData set to InterfaceEntry.
    Added TcpSocket::ReceiveQueueBasedCallback to make writing applications easier.

    Fixed small packet and chunk length discrepancies in several protocols.
    Fixed TCP SACK rexmit queue inconsistency by Luca Giacomoni.
    Fixed several memory leaks.

    Numerous other bug fixes and small improvements.

INET-4.1 (January 2019) - Stable
---------------------------------

This is a new minor stable release of the INET 4.x branch. It comes with some
backward incompatile changes, a few new features, a number of smaller improvements,
and many bug fixes. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.4.1 or later.

The backward incompatible changes are the following:

1. The module initialization stages have been refactored. All stages with numbers
   in their names (e.g. INITSTAGE_LINK_LAYER_2) have been removed, because their
   intended purpose was not clear, and they were often misused. Several new stages
   have been added to replace the removed stages. The new stages have names which
   express better the specific purposes they are used for (e.g. INITSTAGE_POWER,
   INITSTAGE_GROUP_MOBILITY, INITSTAGE_NETWORK_INTERFACE_CONFIGURATION).

   This change most likely results in compilation errors in simulation models
   which use the affected initialization stages. It may also cause runtime errors
   if the stage name has not been changed but its usage is slightly modified.

2. Individual protocol specific data structure fields of InterfaceEntry (e.g. the
   ipv4Data field with type Ipv4InterfaceData stores IP address and netmask) have
   been removed and replaced with a generic API. The new API allows storing any
   number of arbitrary protocol specific data structures in the network interface
   similarly to packet tags. All affected protocols have been updated.

   This change always results in compilation errors in affected simulation models.

3. The old ExtInterface module (used for emulation) has been split into several
   modules. There are separate modules for using simulated network interfaces from
   the host OS, and also for using host OS network interfaces from the simulation.
   The new external interfaces no longer rely on PCAP, they rather use host OS
   raw sockets and TUN/TAP interfaces. Besides ethernet, the new version also
   provides IEEE 802.11 network interface emulation. A new external UDP protocol
   module is also added, which allows INET applications to be tested unmodified
   on real networks using the UDP protocol of the host OS.

   This change results in runtime errors in simulations which use the modified
   models. Configuration of affected simulations have to be updated.

4. Replaced EulerAngles with Quaternion to represent orientation (and angular
   velocity, and angular acceleration) in mobility models to avoid gimbal lock
   and ambigous state representation. Euler angles are easy for human consumption
   but they are generally considered a bad idea for representing 3D orientation.

   This change always results in compilation errors in affected simulation models.

5. Moved MAC address parameters from MAC modules to the corresponding network
   interface modules (e.g. EtherMac -> EthernetInterface). The reason is that
   MAC address really belongs to the network interface and often management or
   other network interface submodules need access to it.

   This change results in runtime errors in simulations which use the modified
   parameters. Configuration of affected simulations have to be updated.

The backward compatible changes are the following:

6. Many applications have been extended with support for lifecycle operations.
   Applications can be started, stopped, and crashed individually using the same
   ScenarioManager script which is also used to control the lifecycle operations
   of network nodes. These applications also subclass from a common ApplicationBase.
   Similarly to applications, network interfaces also support lifecycle operations,
   they can be brought down and up using the ScenarioManager.

7. Two new protocol groups (for UDP and TCP) have been added which allow the
   identification of application protocols based on port numbers. The application
   protocols may not even be implemented in INET, yet they can still be identified
   (e.g. when using emulation) and displayed in the Qtenv packet log window.

8. The PacketPrinter has been extended with a new type column which contains
   the protocol specific packet type (e.g. ECHO_REQUEST for ICMPv4). The packet
   type is contributed by the protocol specific packet printer. This feature helps
   understanding packet logs in Qtenv. With the new version, the printer is also
   capable of providing a reasonably good enough packet name for packets received
   from external sources (e.g. an external network interface during emulation).

9. Modules that provide emulation support have been extended with a new host OS
   network namespace parameter. This feature allows, for example, running multiple
   linux BABEL daemons in their own network namespaces (with their own routing
   tables etc.) and connecting each one to the same simulation which provides
   mobility and wireless connectivity. For another example, it allows connecting
   multiple docker containers running in separate network namespaces again to
   the same simulation. Unfortunately, the network namespace feature is only
   available on Linux at the moment.

10. Added two new socket classes, EthernetSocket and Ieee8022LlcSocket, which
    allow applications to directly use the link layer protocols on a particular
    network interface. For example, an application can send and receive ethernet
    frames directly, bypassing network and transport layer protocols.

11. Added IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag (C tag and S tag) support to ethernet interfaces.
    Virtual ethernet networks can be statically configured using ethernet interface
    parameters of switches and hosts. Additionally, all network nodes can have
    any number of virtual network interfaces which can be configured to request
    VLAN tagging. This feature allows using multiple different virtual networks
    on the same physical network on a per application basis.

12. Raphael Riebl contributed support for ether type discrimantion for IEEE 802.11p
    networks in the 5.9 GHz band. The new modules provide both IEEE 802.11 EPD and
    IEEE 802.11 LPD as required by the standard. The LLC module is automatically
    selected based on the opMode and band parameters.

13. Mani Amoozadeh contributed several new features and fixed quite a few bugs
    in BGP and OSPF wired routing protocols. Among others, BGP has been updated
    related to split horizon, multi-hop EGBP, network interface mode parameters,
    packet checksum calculation, packet serialization, and multiple additional
    parameters to turn on/off individual protocol features. Similarly, OSPF has
    also been updated related to BDR promotion, network interface mode parameters,
    packet checksum calculation, and packet serialization. He also validated the
    INET models by comparing simulation runs with the CISCO packet tracer tool
    for many important use cases.

14. Other notable changes

    Updated a few mobility models to provide better parameterization for 3D.

    Added ClnsAddress and ClnsAddressType from ANSA project.

    Added a new antenna model for rotationally symmetric antenna lobes.

    Added linear and logarithmic antenna lobe visualization.

    Extended IPv4 network configuration with support for configuring isolated networks.

    Fixed several smaller issues related to 802.11 block acknowledgement and QoS recovery procedures.

    Numerous other bug fixes and small improvements.

INET-4.0 (June 2018) - Stable
-----------------------------

This is the first stable release of the new INET 4.x branch. All originally
planned tasks have been completed. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.4.1 or later.

With the new INET 4.0 release, the development of the old INET 3.x branch is
stopped. Users are strongly encouraged to use the new INET 4.0 version for new
projects and also for migrating existing projects. Admittably, migration is not
trivial, but there's an 'INET 4.0 Migration Guide' to help with the task under
the 'doc/misc' folder.

The main changes of the new INET 4.0 major stable release are:

1. Packet API

   The INET Packet API has been completely redesigned to supports efficient
   construction, sharing, duplication, encapsulation, aggregation, fragmentation,
   and serialization of packets.

   The new Packet API also adds many other useful features such as a detailed
   packet printer, a packet dissector, a packet filter based on packet data,
   packet tags for cross-layer communication, region tags for attaching metadata
   to packet data, and queueing and buffering packet data.

   The new Packet API also makes implementing communication protocols easier. The
   resulting code looks more similar to the real world implementation. Supporting
   emulation is pretty much trivial when implementing communication protocols.

   For more details on how to use the new Packet API, see the 'INET Developer's Guide'.

2. Network node architecture

   The internal structure of network nodes has been changed considerably. With
   the new architecture, applications can directly talk to any protocol down to
   the link layer, and protocols don't have to deal with dispatching packets and
   commands to other protocols. Cross-layer communication is directly supported
   in both downward and upward directions.

   For more details on how to use the new architecture, see the 'INET User's Guide'.

3. Documentation

   The somewhat outdated 'INET Framework for OMNeT++ Manual' has been reworked
   and split into the 'INET User's Guide' and 'INET Developer's Guide'. Several
   new detailed showcases have been added and many have been updated, they are
   available on the INET website.

The highlights of this release since the last development release are:

1. Socket API

   The Socket API has been redesigned and uniformized. All sockets can be used
   with similar callback interfaces. All callback functions receive the socket
   object as a parameter to allow handling multiple sockets concurrently.

   New raw Ipv4Socket and Ipv6Socket classes have been added to directly access
   the IPv4 and IPv6 protocols from applications.

2. Module type parameters

   All string NED module parameters, which were used to specify submodule types,
   have been replaced with the standard OMNeT++ typename parameter. This reduces
   the confusion caused by having two different configuration options for the
   same task. The typename parameter is also simpler and more generic in the
   sense that it allows configuring the module type for submodule vector elements.

   The replacement of the EthernetInterface queueType and the Ieee80211Interface
   agentType parameters requires the applications which use them to be updated.
   The queueType parameter had effect on the dataQueueType of the EtherQosQueue,
   which is no longer true. The agentType parameter depended on the mgmtType
   parameter, which is also no longer true. These parameters must be set separately.

3. NED units

   With the new OMNeT++ 5.4 release, INET supports the automatic conversion of
   non-linear units such as dBm, dBW to W, dB to ratio, etc. All 0/0 and +-1/0
   parameter value assignments have been replaced with nan and +-inf respectively.

4. Various renames

   Renamed several modules, submodules, classes, interfaces, etc. to be consistent
   with the INET naming conventions:

    - GenericNetworkProtocol module -> NextHopForwarding
    - generic folder -> nexthop
    - gnp submodule -> nextHop
    - InterfaceEntry get/setNextHopProtocolData functions -> get/setNextHopData
    - Protocol::gnp global variable -> Protocol::nextHopForwarding
    - NextHopDatagram class -> NextHopForwardingHeader

    - RsvpRouter module -> RsvpMplsRouter
    - LdpRouter module -> LdpMplsRouter
    - Rsvp module -> RsvpTe.
    - rsvp_te folder -> rsvpte
    - Protoco::rsvp global variable -> rsvpte.

5. Packet error representation

   The physical layer error models have been extended with a corruption mode
   parameter. The available corruption modes are: packet, chunk, byte, or bit
   level. The parameter determines on what level the error model introduces
   errors into a packet.

   In many protocols, various corruption modes don't lead to different outcome.
   Nevertheless, this change allows implementing IEEE 802.11 A-MPDU aggregation
   with support to only dropping the individual subframes which are received
   incorrectly.

6. IEEE 802.11

   Thanks to Alfonso Ariza Quintana, the 802.11/ac (VHT PHY) modes have been
   added to physical layer. Futhermore, the necessary 5GHz bands with 20, 40,
   80, and 160 Mhz bandwidth have also been added.

   The 802.11 mode lookup mechanism has been extended with bandwidth and number
   of spatial streams parameters, and the mechanism has also been relaxed to
   allow specifying more already supported bitrates (e.g. 86.7 Mbps with 0.1 Mbps
   precision).

   Fixed bug when a packet was received from another Ap and sent up incorrectly.
   Fixed ACK frame duration bug reported by Raphael Elsner.
   Fixed exploded frame transmitter address in MsduDeaggregation.
   Fixed length field wrap around for large packets.
   Fixed center frequency calculation in Ieee80211ArithmeticalBand.

7. Emulation

   The whole emulation support, including the ExternalInterface compound module,
   the Ext simple module, and the corresponding cSocketRtScheduler have been
   redesigned and heavily refactored. The new C++ scheduler class is called
   RealTimeScheduler and it is completely independent of the external interfaces.

   The new scheduler still provides real time simulation execution, but it also
   allows for using the POSIX select mechanism to support I/O operations with
   file descriptors. The external interface hooks into this mechanism to read
   raw packets via PCAP. Futhermore, the new external interface implementation
   uses dedicated raw sockets to send packets.

8. Lifecycle and scenario management

   The LifecycleController module has been removed because the module did not
   have and is not expected to have any parameters in the future. Therefore the
   LifecycleController module is no longer needed in the network for the lifecycle
   operations to work. The corresponding LifecycleController C++ class with the
   actual functionality remains there.

   The ScenarioManager scripting has been extended with the following shortcuts
   for the lifecycle operations:
    - <shutdown module="hostA"/>
    - <startup module="hostA"/>
    - <crash module="hostA"/>

9. RIP

   Thanks to the contributions of Mani Amoozadeh the RIP protocol has been
   refactored to store the protocol specific route data in the routing table
   instead of an internal data structure. The protocol has also been extended
   with new hold-down timer and triggered update parameters.

   Fixed sending updates on interface which is down.

10. Other notable changes

    The Ethernet model has been extended with 200 Gbit and 400 Gbit modes.

    The antenna directional selectivity computation in wireless medium analog
    models has been fixed.

    Several missing protocol dissectors and protocol printers have been added.

    All protocol specific header serializers have been moved to the folder of their
    respective communication protocol.

    In order to suppor more recent OSG Earth versions, the osgEarth::ObjectLocatorNode
    has been replaced with GeoTransform and osg::PositionAttitudeTransform.


INET-3.99.3 (April 2018) - Development
--------------------------------------

This is planned to be the last development release of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.

All originally planned refactorings have been completed, and we don't expect too many
changes until the final version is released. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.3 or later.

The highlights of this release are:

1. Documentation

   The somewhat outdated 'INET Framework for OMNeT++ Manual' draft has been split
   into two documents. One is called the User's Guide and the other one is called
   the Developer's Guide. The reason for the split is that the two documents have
   different target audiences, and they focus on introducing different aspects of
   the INET Framework.

   The User's Guide is intended for users who are mainly interested in assembling
   simulations using the existing components provided by the INET Framework. In
   contrast, the Developer's Guide is intended for developers who are mainly
   interested in developing their own protocols as an addition to the INET
   Framework. Both guides are work in progress, but many parts have been added,
   deleted, and rewritten compared to the old manual.

2. Packet API

   The packet API has been finalized. Several Packet and Chunk functions have been
   renamed for better consistency and more clarity. Affected C++ class level and
   function level documentation has been updated.

   For more details, see the related patch at:
   https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/commit/cf00e516f318893de5f396a498eb11592d8dd1b9

3. Packet dissector

   The packet API has been extended with a new packet dissector API. The packet
   dissector analyzes a packet solely based on the assigned packet protocol and
   the data it contains. The analysis is done according to the protocol logic as
   opposed to the actual representation of the data. The packet dissector works
   similarly to a parser. Basically, it walks through each part (such as protocol
   headers) of a packet in order. For each part, it determines the corresponding
   protocol and the most specific representation for that protocol.

   The packet dissector is mostly implemented in the PacketDissector C++ class.
   It relies on small registered protocol-specific dissector classes such as the
   Ipv4ProtocolDissector. User defined protocols can register their own protocol
   dissector classes to extend the functionality of the generic packet dissector.

4. Packet filter

   Filtering packets based on the actual data they contain is a long time missing
   functionality of INET. With the help of the new packet dissector API, it is
   very simple to create such packet filters.

   In order to simplify filtering, INET provides a new generic expression-based
   packet filter implemented in the PacketFilter C++ class. The expression syntax
   is the same as other OMNeT++ expressions, and the data filter is matched against
   individual parts of the packet as found by the packet dissector. For example,
   the expression "inet::Ipv4Header and srcAddress(10.0.0.*)" matches all packets
   that contains an IPv4 header with a '10.0.0' source address prefix.

5. Packet printer

   Based on the new packet dissector, the INET packet printer has been reworked.
   The new packet printer is implemented in the PacketPrinter C++ class. It relies
   on small protocol specific printer classes to form the user readable string
   representation. User defined protocols can register their own protocol printer
   classes to extend the functionality of the generic packet printer.

   With the OMNeT++ 5.3 version the message printer API has been changed to provide
   support for ANSI escape sequences for styling, and for options. The new INET
   packet printer allows showing/hiding columns and control various printing
   features from Qtenv. The new packet printer provides the following columns in
   Qtenv: 'Source', 'Destination', 'Protocol', 'Length', and 'Info' similarly to
   the well-known Wireshark protocol analyzer. The info column for simple packets
   is assembled inside-out in terms of protocol nesting, but for more complicated
   packets (e.g. ones using aggregation) it is assembled left to right.

6. Packet tags

   With the OMNeT++ 5.3 version, the old experimental API for attaching tag objects
   to packets is no longer available. Meanwhile INET has been extended with a very
   similar, although not exactly source code compatible API.

   The most important consequence is that cMessage and cPacket instances cannot
   have tags attached any more. In order to make dispatching non-packet messages
   between protocols still possible, two new cMessage subclasses called Request
   and Indication have been introduced. Protocols send instances of said classes
   to request services from other protocols or indicate status changes to other
   protocols.

7. SCTP

   With this new release, SCTP, the last remaining protocol, has also been
   ported to the new packet API.

   Many thanks to Irene Rüngeler for her valuable contribution.

8. Packet drill

   The last remaining application has also been ported to the new packet API.
   This application is heavily used for testing UDP, TCP, and SCTP transport
   protocols. All tests under the packetdrill folder pass.

9. Mobility

   Throughout the mobility API and implementation, speed has been renamed to
   velocity where appropriate. The reason is that speed is generally considered
   a scalar quantity whereas velocity is considered a vector quantity.

   The documentation of orientation has been updated to clarify how exactly it
   is meant to be understood. As a somewhat related change, the double type of
   angles in mobility models and geographic positioning (longitude, latitude)
   has been replaced with compile-time checked C++ types called rad and deg for
   clarity.

   New mobility models have been added, some of which allow the combination of
   existing mobility models. The SuperpositioningMobility combines the trajectory
   of several other mobility modules using superposition. The AttachedMobility
   provides a mobility that is attached to another mobility at a given offset.

10. Various renames

    All network interfaces have been renamed to have 'Interface' suffix in their
    names. All signals having the old 'NF_' (obsolete NotificationBoard) prefix
    in their names have been renamed according to the new INET signal naming scheme.
    Moreover, many functions have been renamed (e.g. camel case) to use the INET
    C++ naming scheme.

11. Visualization

    Physical transmission medium, data link and physical link, network path, and
    packet drop visualizers have been extended with the new packet data filtering.
    This allows, for example, to configure several network path visualizers within
    an IntegratedMultiCanvasVisualizer to display the path of packets with certain
    destination addresses differently.

12. PCAP recording

    Similarly to visualization, PCAP recording has also been extended with the
    new packet data filtering. This allows recording only certain packets in a
    PCAP file, which results in drastically reduced file size and significantly
    increased performance.

13. Other notable changes

    The protocol registration C++ interface has been changed to provide better
    support for the message dispatching mechanism. The result is that protocols
    and MessageDispatcher modules can be connected in more flexible ways. In fact,
    MessageDispatchers now only have one gate vector to connect to, they learn
    where protocols are and act accordingly. Network nodes are free to connect
    protocols directly or by using one or several MessageDispatchers as they see
    fit.

    The physical environment ground model has been extended with a new OSG based
    OsgEarthGround model which uses the elevation data of the map. The ground models
    have been also extended with the computation of the ground normal vector.

    Some globally registered protocol identifiers (e.g. Protocol::ieee80211) have
    been split into separate PHY, MAC, and MGMT protocols to disambiguate packet
    parts for the packet dissector. This only affects the registered protocol
    identifiers, actual protocol implementations are unaffected.

    Several MSG file customizations (i.e. @customize) have been refactored or
    eliminated altogether by using the new MSG compiler features of OMNeT++. The
    main purpose is to simplify MSG files, remove unnecessary C++ customizations,
    and to ease understanding and maintaining these files.

    Potential infinite loop in the GPSR MANET routing has been fixed.


INET-3.99.2 (December 2017) - Development
-----------------------------------------

This release is the next development snapshot of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.

The code is still work in progress, which means some details may change until the
final 4.0 version is released. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.3.

The highlights of this release are:

1. New MSG file format

   The new OMNeT++ 5.3 release contains a new version of the MSG compiler. The
   new MSG compiler comes with an updated MSG file syntax which provides several
   very useful improvements. The most notable one is the introduction of import
   statements. The new MSG compiler is not enabled by default in OMNeT++ 5.3 for
   backward compatibility.

   INET heavily relies on using MSG files, so we decided to switch to the new
   syntax. All MSG files have been updated resulting in much simpler content.

   The most notable MSG file changes are:

    - added import statements
    - switched to proper pointer support
    - deleted early declarations
    - moved several properties from fields to types
    - removed many cplusplus blocks
    - removed many unnecessary typedefs

2. Renamed camel case for abbreviations

   Many INET protocol implementations use several capitalized abbreviations to
   shorten long technical terms. Often these abbreviations are concatenated
   resulting in hardly understandable sequence of capital letters. Some notable
   examples are: AODVRERR, OSPFLSA, PIMDM, etc. Many protocol implementations
   also use identifiers which concatenate camel case words with capitalized
   abbreviations making understanding even more difficult. Some notable examples
   are: TCPSACKRexmitQueue, RTCPSDESPacket, OSPFDDOptions, etc.

   We decided to use a generic camel case naming scheme for the identifiers in
   INET. The most important change is that capitalized abbreviations are simply
   treated as words. Using a generic naming scheme makes INET look more consistent.
   All C++ class names, NED module names, packet class names, etc. have been
   updated according to the new naming scheme.

3. Fixed misnomers

   Some misnomers have been fixed to avoid confusion and to better communicate
   the intended goal and behavior of the affected components.

   The most notable renamed C++ classes, modules, and related packet headers are:

    - Csma -> Ieee802154Mac
      This rename was brought up at the 4th OMNeT++ Community Summit. The main
      reason is that the name has to express that this module is intended to
      implement a specific standard (IEEE 802.15.4) as opposed to some generic
      hypothetical protocol. Otherwise maintainers are free to change the code
      however they see fit.

    - BMacLayer -> BMac
    - LMacLayer -> LMac
      These renames simply remove an unnecessary word that hardly adds anything
      to the meaning. The word layer is not used anywhere else in INET modules,
      this was a leftover after migrating the protocols from MiXiM.

    - IdealMac -> AckingMac
      This rename is admitting that this MAC protocol is not ideal in any way.
      In fact, this trivial MAC protocol isn't a real medium access protocol at
      all. This is primarily useful for sitations where the MAC protocol is not
      to be simulated in detail. It doesn't provide carrier sense mechanism,
      collision avoidance, or collision detection. The only MAC feature it provides
      is optional out-of-band acknowledgement, hence the name.

    - IdealRadio -> UnitDiskRadio
      This rename is simply admitting the fact that this radio implements the
      well known unit disk radio model.

   There are several other related C++ classes and NED modules which have also
   been renamed to follow the above renames. For example, IdealRadioMedium ->
   UnitDiskRadioMedium, etc.

4. New models

   Some existing MAC protocols didn't have a predefined wireless interface module
   which may prevented users to find out how to use them.

   - BNic
     This is a wireless interface which uses BMac and ApskScalarRadio by default.

   - LNic
     This is a wireless interface which uses LMac and ApskScalarRadio by default.

   - ShortcutMac
     This module implements a simple shortcut to peer MAC protocol that completely
     bypasses the physical layer.

   - ShortcutRadio
     This module implements a simple shortcut to peer radio protocol that completely
     bypasses the physical medium.

5. Region Tags

   The INET packet API has been extended with region tags. The new region tags
   API is provided by chunks, therefore it's available in packets, queues, and
   buffers. This is an entirely new API that is completely independent of the
   already provided packet tags API.

   Packet tags allow attaching meta information to a packet as a whole. They are
   used inside network nodes to pass information between protocols residing in
   different layers (cross-layer communication). Packet tags don't change when
   new headers are inserted into packets, or when existing headers are removed.

   As opposed to packet tags, region tags allow attaching meta information to a
   region of data designated by an offset and a length. The attached information
   sticks to that data part independently of how the data is stored. Region tags
   are also maintained if the data is queued, buffered, fragmented, or aggregated.

   For example, region tags can be very simply used to measure end to end delay
   in a TCP application. The source application has to attach a creation time
   region tag with the current simulation time to the data before sending it down
   using the TCP socket. The destination application has to query the creation time
   region tag for the data it just received from the TCP socket. The application
   gets a list of creation time region tags in response. Each tag specifies the
   timestamp and the part for which it is attached to. The important thing to note
   here is that all the underlying protocols (including but not limited to TCP,
   IPv4, IEEE 802.11, etc.) may queue, buffer, fragment, aggregate data as they
   see fit. Nevertheless, the region tag API maintains the attached tags as if
   they were individually attached to every single bit. Even if the individual
   subparts are routed using alternative routes in the network.

6. Chunk immutability

   The Packet, ChunkQueue, and ChunkBuffer C++ classes have been changed to
   automatically mark inserted chunks as immutable. Prior to this change it was
   the caller's responsibility to do so, which turned out to be unnecessary.
   With this change the pushHeader and pushTrailer functions have been removed
   from the API, and they have been replaced with insertHeader and insertTrailer
   respectively.

7. Packet drop signals

   All packet drop related OMNeT++ signals have been replaced with the generic
   packetDrop signal. The generic signal always carries a details object with it,
   which describes the packet drop reason and some other data such as a retry
   limit. The main reason for this change is to allow the packet drop visualizer
   to display all packet drops independently of the source and reason.

8. Data link visualization

   The data link activity visualization has been extended with a new feature that
   determines what level of activity is displayed. The supported activity levels
   are the following:

    - service
      The service level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets going in at the top of the link layer in the source node and going
      out at the top of the link layer in the destination node. (all SDUs)

    - peer
      The peer level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets processed inside the link layer in the source node and processed
      inside the link layer in the destination node.

    - protocol
      The protocol level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets going out at the bottom of link layer in the source node and going
      in at the bottom of the link layer in the destination node. (all PDUs)

9. IEEE 802.11 model

   The model has been changed with respect to packet names for A-MSDU aggregated
   and fragmentated packets. Aggregate packets have a name that is a concatenation
   of the names of all the aggregated packets. Fragment packets have a name that
   contains the name of the original packet plus the fragment index. In both cases,
   the restored packets (deaggregated or defragmented) at the other end have their
   names restored.


INET-3.99.1 (November 2017) - Development
-----------------------------------------

This release is the second development snapshot of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.

The code is still work in progress, which means some details may change until the
final 4.0 version is released. At the moment, it requires a modified version of
OMNeT++ 5.1 or 5.2. The modification is distributed as a patch file in the
'misc/patch' folder.

The highlights of this release are:

1. General

 - Dropped obsolete run scripts for individual simulations. The run scripts are
   replaced by a setenv script in the INET installation and separate inet scripts
   in the bin folder. Run 'setenv' once from the shell to setup the environment
   variables, and run 'inet', 'inet_release' or 'inet_dbg' from the simulation
   directory.
 - Removed compatibility macros required for OMNeT++ 4.x builds. This new INET
   version doesn't build with OMNeT++ 4.x versions.
 - Renamed the byte and bit C++ units to B and b respectively. The new names
   were selected to be conformant with the IEC & IEEE unit conventions.
 - Fixed several memory leaks and other minor bugs.

2. Shared pointer

 - Added aliases for std::shared_ptr, std::make_shared, std::dynamic_pointer_cast,
   etc. to support replacing the shared pointer implementation used by the new
   Packet API.
 - Added a new shared pointer implementation (from Boost) called IntrusivePtr.
   The new implementation uses only 1 counter (no weak counter) that is directly
   added to the shared object using inheritance (thus intrusive). This shared
   pointer is not thread safe, so it doesn't use atomic operations to increment
   and decrement counters, but generally that isn't a requirement for simulation.
   According to speed measurements (see tests/speed folder) the release builds
   run 5-10% faster.

3. CRC handling

 - CRC insertion and validation code has been refactored and adapted to the new
   Packet API. This change affects UDP, TCP, IPv4, IPv6, ICMPv4, ICMPv6, Ethernet,
   and IEEE 802.11. The protocol modules have a parameter to control CRC handling.
   They support different CRC operation modes: disabled, declared, and computed.
   Either the disabled (if supported by the protocol) or the computed mode must
   be selected if packets are recorded in a PCAP file.

4. Ethernet

 - Refactored physical layer packet representation and processing
 - Cleaned up MSG files defining ethernet PHY and MAC frames and headers.

5. IEEE 802.2

 - Renamed the global C++ protocol variable to Protocol::ieee8022, and the global
   C++ protocol group variable to ProtocolGroup::ieee8022protocol.
 - Fixed handling incoming packets with bit errors.

6. IEEE 802.11

 - Revived the FCS computation and verification. The FCS computation is optional,
   you can enable it using the 'fcsMode' parameter of the Ieee80211Mac.
 - Fixed rate selection mechanism for control response frames. They must be sent
   with a mandatory rate that is not faster than the rate of the packet for which
   they are a response. If the received packet was not sent with a mandatory rate,
   then they were sent with the highest mandatory rate.
 - Changed 802.11 OFDM error models with respect to the service field. The service
   field is part of the PHY header in terms of bits, but it's sent in the data part
   in terms of symbols.
 - Fixed PHY header length in Ieee80211Radio. Added separate PHY chunks and PHY
   padding bits for completeness. This change doesn't affect the signal duration,
   because it was alrady correctly computed.
 - Added descriptors for several parts for signals, transmissions, modes, bands,
   channels, etc. The new descriptors allow inspecting of the signal meta data
   in the runtime user interface.
 - Extended 802.11 layered error model for packet level simulation.

7. CsmaCa

 - Added 'fcsMode' parameter and FCS computation and verification.
 - Changed headerLength and ackLength to the minimum value, any additional length
   specified is represented by a separate ByteCount chunk.
 - Fixed error caused by receiving an ACK frame with bit errors.
 - Fixed state machine when receiving unexpected frames while trying to transmit one.

8. Netfilter

 - Refactored netfilter hooks so that the new interface functions only get the
   datagram as a parameter. Hook implementations should query and modify the
   packet and/or the attached tags. For example, setting the outgoing interface
   can be done by attaching an InterfaceReq tag.

9. Network interface

 - Added the InterfaceEntry class used by InterfaceTable to the corresponding
   NIC modules, because they represent the same network interface. All network
   interface modules are required to have a @class(InterfaceEntry) property in
   their NED definition. This change also allows one to see the internal state
   of a network interface just by selecting its submodule in the runtime user
   interface.

10. Radio

 - Extracted a separate IAntennaGain interface from the IAntenna interface. This
   change allows the transmissions to carry directional selectivity even if the
   transmitter radio gets destroyed during the propagation of the signal.
 - Changed transmitter lookup to use radio identifier instead of internal pointer
   to fix crashes when the condition described above occurs.
 - Separated simsignals for transmission/reception from radio signal departure/arrival.
   This allows differentiating signals at the receiver which are actually attempted
   to be received as opposed to simply arriving there.

11. MANET routing

 - Adapted all MANET routing protocols (AODV, DYMO, and GPSR) to the refactored
   INetfilter hook interface. Routing protocols query and modify the packet and/or
   the attached tags as they need.

12. TCP

 - Removed obsolete TCP socket 'dataTransferMode' parameter from all implementations.
   Applications don't have to decide upfront between sending byte count based, field
   based, or raw bytes based packets. With the new API, applications can send any
   combination of the above over the same connection.

13. Visualizer

 - Added a new set of integrated visualizer modules called IntegratedMultiVisualizer,
   IntegratedMultiCanvasVisualizer, and IntegratedMultiOsgVisualizer. These modules
   contain a submodule vector of all special purpose visualizers inside as opposed
   to a single instance. This change allows, for example, one to easily configure
   several visualizers to display various aspects of the simulation differently.


INET-3.99.0 (August 2017) - Development
---------------------------------------

This release is the first development snapshot of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.
It contains a number of non-trivial backward incompatible changes compared to the
INET 3.x releases. These changes may require considerable efforts from INET users
to migrate their projects and protocols. The migration may affect INI files, NED
files, and C++ code. Please refer to the INET-4.0 migration guide under 'doc/misc/'
for further details.

The code is still work in progress, which means some details may change until the
final 4.0 version is released. At the moment, it requires a modified version of
OMNeT++ 5.1 or 5.2. The modification is distributed as a patch file in the
'misc/patch' folder.

The highlights of this release are:

1. Redesigned network node architecture

   The internal structure of network nodes has been changed considerably. These
   changes have profound effects on how applications are using protocols, and
   also on how protocols communicate with each other.

   With the new architecture, applications are able to use multiple protocols
   simultaneously, even if the protocols are part of different protocol layers.
   For example, in the old model it was impossible for a StandardHost application
   to use TCP and UDP protocols at the same time. This old restriction has been
   eliminated. Applications can now talk to any protocol (or several protocols),
   even several layers below. The dispatch mechanism necessary for that is now
   built into the new network node architecture.

   Furthermore, protocols don't have to deal with dispatching packets to other
   protocols or applications any more. In the old architecture, many protocols
   (e.g. IP) implemented their own mechanisms to communicate with multiple
   protocols/applications. In the new network node architecture this issue is
   solved by the dispatching mechanism, and protocols don't need to implement
   their own dispatching.

   The main component of the new network node architecture is the so-called
   MessageDispatcher module type. Such modules are responsible for directing
   packets from one protocol to the other and also between applications and
   protocols. Most often, MessageDispatcher modules are displayed as horizontal
   lines between protocol layers inside the network nodes. Protocols and
   applications connect to the dispatcher module directly above and below them.
   Dispatchers do not need to be configured because they learn about connected
   protocols/application at runtime.

   Please refer to the 'src/inet/node/base' and 'src/inet/node/inet' folders for
   more details.

2. Introduction of packet tags

   Packets no longer carry control info data structures while being passed around
   in a network node. They have a set of so-called packet tags attached instead.
   A packet tag is usually a very small data structure that focuses on a single
   parameterization aspect of one or more protocols. For example, a MacAddressReq
   tag specifies the requested transmitter and receiver MAC addresses for a MAC
   protocol.

   In general, packet tags come in three flavors: requests (top down), indications
   (bottom up), and plain tags (meta data). The naming convention for packet tags
   is to use the Req, Ind, or Tag suffix respectively. Tags are usually defined
   in MSG files, so that they can be inspected in the runtime environment.

   Tags can pass through protocol layers and reach far away from the originator
   protocol in both the downward and upward direction. This allows protocols to
   implement mechanisms that depend on meta data that is not directly present in
   a packet. For example, a wireless routing protocol could make more informed
   decisions when building the routing table by using the SignalPowerInd tag
   attached by the physical layer. Similarly, an application could attach an
   InterfaceReq to a packet in order to instruct the routing protocol to use a
   particular outgoing interface.

   The old control info data structures that were used with packets are no longer
   available. They have been split into several packet tags. Other control info
   data structures that were used with commands are left unchanged. All related
   protocols have been updated to use the new packet tags. New tags have also
   been introduced which don't have a counterpart in the old data structures.

   Please refer to the MSG files with the 'Tag.msg' suffix for more details.

3. Introduction of flat packets

   A new packet API is introduced that supports efficient construction, sharing,
   duplication, encapsulation, aggregation, fragmentation and serialization. The
   new API also supports dual representation, packet data can be accessed both as
   raw bytes and as objects.

   The new API contains two layers, the lower layer focuses on the representation
   of data. The primary building block of the lower layer is the Chunk class and
   its subclasses. The upper layer builds on top of this and provides the typical
   packet, queue and buffer abstractions used by protocols.

   Nearly all protocols (except SCTP) have been changed to use the new packet API.
   This includes TCP, UDP, IPv4, IPv6, AODV, OSPF, RIP, MPLS, Ethernet, PPP,
   802.11, etc. Due to the flat nature of the new packet data structure, all old
   packet data structures (subclasses of cPacket) have been replaced with chunks
   (subclasses of FieldChunk).

   The various old TCP transfer mode parameters which were used to distinguish
   between communicating with simple byte counts, objects, or byte streams are
   obsolete. Applications and protocols are free to use any kind of chunk in any
   combination. Other protocols will be able to handle such packets transparently
   using the new API.

   Furthermore, all old packet serializer classes have been changed to integrate
   with the new packet API. This allows the transparent processing of packets
   by protocols independently whether they are actually represented as a sequence
   of bytes or as a sequence of field based chunks.

   NOTE: SCTP has not been ported yet to the new architeture and is currently
   excluded from the build.

   Please refer to the 'src/inet/common/packet' and 'test/packet' folders for
   more details.

4. The new implementation has been extensibly tested. We used fingerprint tests
   after each change to ensure that all protocol behaviors have been preserved.


INET 3.6.4 (March 2018) - stable
--------------------------------

This release contains minor bug fixes and compatibility fixes for the
OMNeT++ 5.3 Preview 4 release. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

General:

  - Changed some module parameters from double to int.

  - Corrected memory management issue in radio module.

  - common: added intWithUnit() ned function.

Packet printer:

  - made it compatible with the new message printer API in OMNeT++ 5.3


INET 3.6.3 (December 2017) - Stable
-----------------------------------

This release contains minor bug fixes and compatibility fixes for the final
OMNeT++ 5.3 Preview 1 release. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

TCP:

  - Fixed TCP/IP Checksum calculation with odd lengths.

SCTP:

  - Fixed a retransmission bug where the transmission counter was not
    advanced when the data was retransmitted due to timeout.
	- Fixed a bug when fast recovery was active and the cumulative TSN
    advanced, the miss indications were not increased.

Packetdrill:

	- The counting of Gap Reports was fixed.
	- Added a new test to test fast Retransmissions.

Ieee802154NarrowbandScalarRadio:

	- The bandwidth was not correctly claculated, leading to incorrect channel allocation
	- The PHY header was calculated wrong

APSKScalarReceiver:

	- Fixed sensitivity bug in APSKScalarReceiver found by Tobias Thiel


INET 3.6.2 (October 2017) - Stable
----------------------------------

This release contains minor bug fixes and compatibility fixes for the final
OMNeT++ 5.2 release. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

 - Tcp: Fixed incorrect connection pointer in rexmitQueue.
 - Edcaf: Fixed aifs calculation for customised aifsn.
 - Visualization: parameter rename
 - inet_featuretool: Removed warning when treating a missing feature in the state files as default.
 - Updated showcases and tutorials.
 - Various fixes to eliminate warnings on clang 4 and gcc 7.x.


INET 3.6.1 (July 2017) - Stable
-------------------------------

This release contains minor compatibility fixes. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

 - Minor compatibility fix to work with OMNeT++ 5.2 Preview 1
 - Turned on the parallel build option in the IDE project file.


INET-3.6.0 (June 2017) - Stable
-------------------------------

This release contains some important new features, several bug fixes, and a few
minor enhancements. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

Highlights in this release:

 - On Windows, INET is no longer using the auto-import feature of the linker, because
   it generated more than 65536 symbols. Dependent projects crashed because of this.
   All INET APIs now should be prefixed with INET_API macro. (fixes #257)

 - The makefile now generates separate precompiled header for debug and release mode.
   This is required to be able to quicly switch between release and debug mode in the IDE.

 - The IEEE 802.11 MAC model has been extended with several new components. The
   implementation is entirely based on the standard IEEE 802.11™-2012 Part 11:
   Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications.

   The new architecture is designed to be modular to facilitate experimenting
   with new policies, features and algorithms within the MAC layer. Users can
   easily replace individual components with their own implementations. Policies,
   which most likely to be experimented with, are extracted into their own modules.

   The new model has the following replaceable built-in policies:
    - ACK policy
    - RTS/CTS policy
    - Originator and recipient block ACK agreement policies
    - MSDU aggregation policy
    - Fragmentation policy

   The new model also separates the following components:
    - Coordination functions
    - Channel access methods
    - MAC data services
    - Aggregation and deaggregation
    - Fragmentation and defragmentation
    - Block ACK agreements and reordering
    - Frame exchange sequences
    - Duplicate removal
    - Rate selection
    - Rate control
    - Protection mechanisms
    - Recovery procedure
    - Contention
    - Frame queues
    - TX/RX

   There are several enhancements and new features to the previous version, the
   most notable are frame exchange sequences, block acknowledgement, and MSDU
   aggregation.

   The new version was thoroughly tested against the old one using fingerprint
   tests. The tests ensure that the new version doesn't introduce any regression.
   In fact, the tests brought up a few problems in the old implementation that
   were fixed in the new one.

 - The power model has been extended with support for charge/current based models
   as opposed to the existing energy/power based ones. A new energy management
   component has also been added to separate monitoring and controlling of energy
   consumers and generators from the rest of the model.

 - New visualizers has been added to display packet drops and link breaks, data
   contained in interface tables, routes stored in routing tables, queues filled
   with packets, residual capacity of energy storages, and transport connections
   between network nodes. The new visualizers are also added to the already existing
   integrated ones. Note: many features that work with the 2D visualizers currently
   don't work with the 3D OSG visualizers.

 - Added new features for various tutorials and showcases.


INET-3.5.0 (February 2017) - Stable
-----------------------------------

This release contains mostly bug fixes and compatibility changes. It requires
OMNeT++ 5.1. Earlier versions of OMNeT++ are *not* compatible.

Highlights in this release:

Build:

  - The build process is now using precompiled headers. This can speed up the
    build process considerably.

  - Feature macros (WITH_*) that show the enablement of features are now placed
    into a header file (src/inet/features.h) instead of passed on the command line.
    The build process adds the WITH_OSG and WITH_OSGEARTH macro to the opp_defines.h
    file when WITH_OSG/WITH_OSGEARTH is set to yes. This allows the IDE to properly
    highlight/disable the appropriate code fragments.

  - 64-bit build is now supported on Windows.

Visualizers:

  - Added a Plot figure (see InstrumentsExample).

DHCP:

  - DHCP fixes.

  - DHCP can now activated in a Router by setting hasDHCP=true

  - Added new WirelessNetWith2DHCP example.

Radio:

  - Added two-ray interference model (TwoRayInterference) as a pathoss model.

SCTP:

  - Added StreamReconfig support for SCTP (by Irene Ruengeler)

GPSR:

  - Allow to specify the interface name in a parameter instead of
    using a hardcoded interface name.

Fixes:

  - Small fixes in SimpleEnergyStorage and during Antenna initialization

  - Calling IPv6RoutingTable::getInterfaceByAddress(const L3Address& address) or
    findGpsrOptionFromNetworkDatagram() function caused infinite recursion.

  - Radio: Fixed FreeSpacePathLoss bug in the loss formula for alpha != 2 case,
    reported by Benjamin Sliwa.

  - SimpleVoIPServer now resolves destAddress at startTime (instead
    of initialization)

  - Ieee8021dRelay: fixed a null pointer crash

  - StaticConcentricMobility: fixed a rounding issue

  - ICMP: fixed "icmp error answer to a fragmented udp packet" problem

  - ICMP: fixing bug #64: Buffer Overflow Error

  - AODV: no longer causes assertion failure when RREP-ACK arrived after a timeout


INET-3.4.0 (June 2016) - Stable
-------------------------------

This INET release requires OMNeT++ 5.0. This is due to the new visualization
feature which uses the Canvas and OSG APIs introduced in OMNeT++ 5.0. Most
other parts of the codebase still builds with OMNeT++ 4.6.

Highlights is this release:

Tutorials:

  - Added a Wireless Tutorial (tutorials/wireless). The tutorial consists of
    several simulation models of increasing complexity, demonstrating the INET
    architecture and features related to wireless communication networks. The
    models are accompanied by a text which explains each step, complete with
    screenshots and recorded animations.

  - Added draft for a visualization tutorial.

Visualizers:

  - Added a new 'visualizer' folder under 'src' that contains visualizer modules.
    The current visualizer modules can display the scene (optionally with osgEarth),
    the network nodes (optionally with 3D models), physical objects in
    the physical environment, node mobility along with movement trail, discovered
    network connectivity, discovered network routes, ongoing transmissions,
    ongoing receptions, propagating radio signals, and statistics.

    The visualizer modules are intentionally kept separate from network protocol
    models. They are responsible for displaying various aspects of the simulation
    in a graphical user interface. The most common mechanism they use is looking
    up other modules and/or subscribing to the signals they emit. The visualizer
    modules are compatible with both Tkenv and Qtenv. In Qtenv they are able to
    display on both a 2D canvas and a 3D OSG scene.

Instrument figures:

  - Implemented a facility that allows one to display various gauges, meters
    and indicators in the network graphics that take their inputs from signals.
    The "gadgets" themselves are figures that are added into the network using
    @figure properties, and they are driven by signals via @statistic properties,
    using a special result recorder ("figure") that sets the value in the target
    figure. Figure types are: gauge, linearGauge, progressMeter, thermometer,
    counter, indicatorLabel/indicatorText, and indexedImage. Their sources
    are in src/inet/common/figures.

    There is a demo in examples/visualization/instruments, and an additional
    usage example in the Wireless Tutorial (tutorials/wireless).

MAC protocols:

  - Added CsmaCaMac, a simple CSMA/CA-based MAC protocol with optional
    acknowledgements and a retry mechanism. With the appropriate settings,
    it can approximate basic 802.11b ad-hoc mode operation. The code is
    based on the original Ieee80211Mac (802.11b) from 2006.

  - IdealMac: Changed out-of-band ACKs to be optional.

  - LMAC, BMAC, CSMA: Fixed handling of frames with bit errors.

  - WirelessNic: added optional classifier submodule

  - Ieee80211Mac: Resurrected link break signal for giving up a transmission.

Radio:

  - The physical environment model has been extended to include a ground model.
    Ground models need to implement the IGround interface that currently
    contains a getElevation() method. A very simple implementation, FlatGround
    is also provided.

  - The TwoRayGroundReflection model has been updated to use the ground model
    of the physical environment.

  - Added packetReceivedFromUpper and packetSentToUpper signals.

Mobility:

  - Mobility models now use the initialZ parameter even if position is
    initialized from the display string.

  - Added VehicleMobility that simulates turning at waypoints.

  - Now all mobile nodes face (i.e. set the  orientation to) the direction of
    movement. This affects radio reception when direction antenna is used.

Physical enviromment:

  - Added geographic coordinate system support.

  - TracingObstacleLoss renamed to DielectricObstacleLoss.

Misc:

  - Added ApplicationPacket that can be used as generic application payload.
    Currently it contains a sequence number.

  - UDPBasicApp/UDPSink: changed to use ApplicationPacket, and record
    received packet sequence numbers

  - RelayUnit: Added packetReceivedFromLowerSignal and packetSentToLowerSignal signals.

  - AODV: Removed AODV-RERR messages for inactive routes.

  - Applications: Added throughput statistic to some applications.

  - IPv4: Added sentTo/receivedFrom upper/lower signals.

  - Common: Added average forest "material".

  - Common: Added throughput result filter.

Build:

  - Added a top level 'doc' target to build all INET documentation in a single step

  - Added project feature tests (tests/features)


INET-3.3.0 (June 2016) - Stable
-------------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or 5.0.

Build:

  - Removed unnecessary -pINET from the makemake options. This caused linking
    issues on Windows when 'clang' was used as a compiler. (the INET_API
    macros are needed only for Visual C++)

  - In makefrag, use inet_featuretool instead of scanning the compiler options
    to detect the enablement of the VoIPStream and NSC features

  - Fix: TCP_lwip did not compile when using the command-line make.

  - Examples: 'run' script can now take parameters containing spaces (as long as
    they are quoted properly)

SCTP:

  - Packetdrill: Added SCTP support and socket options (by Irene Ruengeler)

  - SCTP: added support for the SCTP_ACCEPT command (by Irene Ruengeler)

Physical layer:

  - Added IdealObstacleLoss. This obstacle loss model determines power loss by
    checking if there is any obstructing physical object along the straight
    propagation path. The result is either total power loss if there was
    such an object or no loss at all if there wasn't.

MANET:

  - The "MANET Routing" feature (a collection of routing protocols ported
    into INET from other projects) was removed from the source tree. The
    removed MANET routing algorithms are still available in the INETMANET
    fork of INET (https://github.com/aarizaq/inetmanet-2.0). INET now contains
    the following natively implemented MANET routing protocols: AODV, DYMO, GPSR.

Fixes:

  - IPv4: bug fix in IPv4 packet deserialization

  - Ieee802.11: bug fix in 802.11 management code (set TID only for QoS data
    frames)

  - TelnetApp: bug fix (cancel pending timers correctly)

  - IPv4NetworkConfigurator: bug fix: links were not properly detected by the
    configurator when nodes connected to a switch were defined after the switch
    in the NED file

  - IPv6: double delete fixed

  - IPv4RoutingTable: fix: only interfaces with the BROADCAST flag set have
    local broadcast addresses

  - AODV: fix: AODV stopped with an error if an ICMP error packet was received
    (ICMP packets are now accepted and silently dropped)

  - examples: removed obsolete fingerprints.ini files

Ethernet:

  - Added a separate EtherPhyFrame class. Motivation: there was no obvious way
    looking at an EtherFrame to tell whether it already contains preamble+SFD
    or not.

  - Change: When modeling the decapsulation from PHY header (subtracting preamble
    and SFD lengths), padding to minimum frame size was also undone. This is
    no longer done.

  - EtherIFG renamed to EtherFilledIFG

  - Catch duplex-halfduplex misconfiguration and throw error

  - Fix incorrect byte counting during burst

  - Serializer: adapted to the introduction of EtherPhyFrame

  - Serializer: fix: CRC was in wrong byte order

  - Serializer: fix: length field contained incorrect value (size of frame
    instead of size of payload)


INET-3.2.4 (April 2016) - Stable
--------------------------------

This is a minor maintenance release that requires either OMNeT++ 4.6,
or 5.0. (Earlier test versions of OMNeT++ will not work.)

Changes:

  - build: updated inet_featuretool (the same like the opp_featuretool in OMNeT++ 5.0)
  - minor fixes to make it build under both OMNeT++ 4.6 and 5.0


INET-3.2.3 (March 2016) - Stable
--------------------------------

This is a minor maintenance release that requires either OMNeT++ 4.6,
or 5.0rc or later. (Earlier test versions of OMNeT++ will not work.)

Changes:

  - build: updated inet_featuretool (the same like the opp_featuretool in OMNeT++ 5.0 rc)
  - several fixes to make it compatible with both OMNeT++ 4.6 and 5.0
  - smoke and fingerprint tests are running on both OMNeT++ 4.6 and 5.0
  - some variable renames and fixes in ieee802.11


INET-3.2.1 (January 2016) - Stable
----------------------------------

Changes:

  - 802.11 MAC model: EDCA, rate control crashes fixed
  - Radio: Fixed handling of abort reception/transmission.
  - Added missing INET_API defines
  - Physical layer: Fixed memory issues detected by valgrind


INET-3.2 (December 2015) - Stable
---------------------------------

This release requires either OMNeT++ 4.6, or 5.0b3 or later. (Earlier test
versions of OMNeT++ will not work.)

IEEE 802.11 MAC model:

 - After further refinement, new features, several bugfixes and validation
   testing, the new MAC model was made the default one. It was also renamed
   from Ieee80211NewMac to Ieee80211Mac, while the old Ieee80211Mac became
   Ieee80211OldMac.

 - Improvements on the new MAC model include:
   * Added fragmentation support;
   * Added Onoe, ARF, AARF rate control algorithms;
   * Implemented early Ack timeout;

 - Validation: Several validation tests were run against the ns-3 Wifi model.
   In the tested configurations, it was ensured that new Mac model behaves
   *exactly* as the ns-3 model (that is, timestamped packet logs match exactly).
   Discrepancies were resolved with bugfixes in our code, in the ns-3 code,
   or both. Bugs found in ns-3 were reported in the ns-3 bugtracker.
   See tests/misc/ns3.

Physical layer:

 - Added support for the simulation of separate signal parts in the Radio.
   The preamble, header and data parts can be optionally simulated
   separately. This results in a more accurate simulation, because a
   reception may be aborted before the data part is received.

 - Added separate preambleDuration parameters to each radio transmitter for more
   flexible configuration.

 - Added Ieee80211IdealRadio, an ideal channel model (aka unit disc radio)
   suitable for use with Ieee80211Mac.

Fixes:

 - Fixed PER computation in NetworkConfiguratorBase.

 - Fixed missing byte length in AODV and added control packet length configuration.

 - RTT initialization was fixed in TCP (Vegas, Westwood) because the original
   value caused "out of range" error with the overflow check introduced in
   OMNeT++ 5.0b3.

 - BPDU packet length was incorrectly set sometimes in the 802.1d model.

 - Fixed incorrect sign of lastSpeed in some mobility models.

 - The VoIPStream app has been updated to work with the ffmpeg version
   distributed in Ubuntu 15.10

 - Added some INET_API macros to compile properly on Windows.

 - QoSClassifier example no longer needs the 802.11 project feature.


INET-3.1.1 (October 2015) - Stable
----------------------------------

Changes:

  - Fixed build problem on Windows


INET-3.1.0 (October 2015) - Stable
----------------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or later. In addition to several bug fixes,
it features the following additions compared to INET-3.0:

1. A modular and extensible new 802.11 MAC model.

   It replaces the existing monolithic 802.11 MAC model that has become
   increasingly difficult to maintain and extend over the years. The new MAC
   has a modular design, where components can be swapped in and out. Concepts
   such as contention-based channel access, frame exchange sequences, EDCA
   queues, aggregation, fragmentation, duplicate detection, block acknow-
   ledgement, frame rate selection, automatic rate selection, etc would
   be expressed as self-contained C++ classes that implement abstract
   interfaces and (may) have multiple implementations.

   This kind of modular design also favours the open-source development model,
   because abstract interfaces give contributors better cues on where to start
   implementing a new feature, and new classes can be more readily accepted
   into the codebase because changes to existing code (and thus the risk of
   introducing new bugs) can be minimized.

   In this initial form, it has roughly the same set of 802.11 features as the
   old Ieee80211Mac module: basic DCF and EDCA, with the channel access and
   some more parameters being configurable.

   For now, the old Ieee80211Mac is still the default one for simulations.
   To switch to using the new one, add the following line to your omnetpp.ini:

   **.macType = "Ieee80211CompatibleNewMac"

   Ieee80211CompatibleNewMac is a wrapper around Ieee80211NewMac to make its
   parameterization similar to the old MAC.

   Note that the new MAC is a compound module. You can double-click on the mac
   submodule (in Tkenv) and expore its internals.

   See the ChangeLog in src/inet/linklayer/ieee80211/newmac/ for more
   information. The same folder also contains a presentation about the
   architecture of the new MAC, as it was presented at the 2nd OMNeT++
   Community Summit in September 2015 (see http://summit.omnetpp.org).

2. Packetdrill. This is a port of Google's Packetdrill testing tool into
   the INET Framework.

   Google released the script-based Packetdrill tool in 2013. It allows one
   to test transport protocols like UDP and TCP on Linux and BSD-based
   operating systems. Scripts define test cases that inject packets to the
   protocol implementation under test, perform operations using the API
   controlling the transport protocol, and verify the sending of packets, all
   at specified times. The ported version provides a simple and powerful
   method of testing transport protocols implemented in INET.

   Packetdrill has been contributed by Irene Rungeler and Michael Tuexen at
   FH Muenster. Packetdrill has been presented at the 2nd OMNeT++ Community
   Summit in September 2015; find the paper and presentation slides
   at http://summit.omnetpp.org.

3. Manet protocols in inet.routing.extras package are now disabled by default.
   You can still enable the MANET feature manually or you can use INETMANET
   (a fork of INET) which contains a more up to date codebase for these protocols.

4. Changes and bug fixes in the (old) 802.11 MAC:

   - The default lot time was not always correctly chosen for the configured
     mode (modulation and coding scheme).

   - Change maxQueueSize's meaning to per AC queue. Before, maxQueueSize
     referred to the total of the AC queue lengths, which could cause starvation
     of higher priority queues (see ChangeLog for more info.)

   - Removed external queue support, that is, the mgmt submodule in the Nic
     no longer serves as a passive queue for the MAC.


INET-3.0.0 (June 2015) - Stable
-------------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or later. There are numerous breaking changes
since the latest stable version (2.6). Please read this file carefully and
see the ChangeLog files in the source for more details.

Nodes:
 - Modules that represent a "node" at network level should be tagged with
   @networkNode property instead of @node. (The @node property name was
   too generic.) The INode module interface was renamed to INetworkNode, too.

Applications:
 - The functionality of PingTestApp was merged into PingApp and PingTestApp
   was removed.

Network Layer:
 - Refactored IPv4/IPv6 options to use TLVOptions structure.


INET-2.99.1 (May 2015) - Development
------------------------------------

This release is the last development snapshot of the upcoming INET-3.0 version.

The highlights of this release are:

1. Includes a new packet/bit/symbol level physical layer model for the 802.11
   OFDM PHY according to the IEEE 802.11-2012 standard, and a hypothetical
   generic packet/bit/symbol level APSK physical layer model for further
   experimentation. The new implementations include forward error correction
   encoding/decoding, scrambling/descrambling, interleaving/deinterleaving, and
   modulation/demodulation.

2. Contains fixes for more than 300 defects found by Coverity, an online C++
   static code analysis tool. The reported Defect Density is decreased to
   0.5/kLoC which is considered a result. You can find the detailed results at
   https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3472

3. Contains several other memory leak and memory management fixes reported by
   valgrind memcheck.

4. Modernizes C++ source code using new C++11 features such as nullptr, auto
   types, range loop, override, etc.

Read on for further details.

All components:
 - Replaced all variants of findModuleWherever calls with module parameters,
   because their behavior is non-predictable and less composable.
 - Replaced most getParentModule calls with module parameters to make modules
   less dependent on their context, and thus more reusable.
 - Replaced UnimplementedModule and all related *_None modules with calls to
   firstAvailableOrEmpty NED function, and changed affected submodules to be
   present conditionally.
 - Moved interface classes under contract subdirectories. Moved base classes
   under base subdirectories.
 - Introduced a new script called 'inet_featuretool' in the root folder of the
   project that allows listing/enabling/disabling specific features from the
   command line. Use 'inet_featuretool -h' for further info.
   The 'make makefiles' command now uses this tool to extract the required
   command line options to generate the makefile. This means that after
   enabling/disabling a feature you always have to invoke 'make makefiles'
   to regenerate the makefile based on the new feature enablement state.

Nodes:
 - All "node type" modules implement the INode module interface so it is now
   possible to create networks (using the <"actualNodeType"> like INode construct)
   where the actual node type can be configured from an ini file.

Emulation:
 - Network Emulation feature no longer depends on OMNeT++ to detect the presence
   of PCAP. Instead the feature can be turned on/off by the user.

Common:
 - Added create-module and delete-module commands to ScenarioManager.
 - New macros in INETDefs.h to test INET version: INET_VERSION (format: 0xAABB
   where AA is the major while BB is the minor version in hex) and
   INET_PATCH_LEVEL (format: 0xCC is the patch level in hex).
 - On Linux, specifying --valgrind as the first argument for the opp_run script
   (or a run script in the examples folder) will start the simulation using the
   'valgrind' memory profiler.
 - Added a reusable HeatMapFigure and a GaugeFigure.
 - Added a reusable DelayedInitializer to support static member initialization
   without having to worry about the initialization order.
 - Renamed ByteArrayMessage to RawPacket.

Environment:
 - Added isometric view angles to physical environment visualization.
 - Added class and module interfaces to physical environment.

Mobility:
 - Added a new StaticConcentricMobility similar to StaticGridMobility that places
   nodes on concentric circles.
 - Removed TracCI and TraCIScenarioManager because these modules are maintained
   in the Veins framework.

Serializer:
 - Refactored packet serializer classes to use a safe buffer class to read and
   write binary data. This allows parsing incorrect binary representations without
   runtime errors required by bit precise physical layer models.
 - Refactored recursion in serializers to be extensible with new packet formats
   without modifying existing code.
 - Fixed a number of packet length bugs and inconsistencies between serialized
   and non-serialized forms.

Application:
 - Merged NetPerfMeter application from the master branch added by Thomas Dreibholz.

PCAP:
 - Allow flushing the pcapFile after each write to ensure that all packets are
   captured in case of a crash.

Transport Layer:
 - Added ITransportPacket interface to TCPSegment, UDPPacket, and SCTPMessage.
   It allows generic handling of transport packets.

SCTP:
 - Added fragPoint parameter to limit the size of fragments.
 - After the handshake only send heartbeats on unconfirmed paths.
 - Fixed close command handling, i.e. stop reading when the command is sent.
 - Handle SACK and NR_SACK separately and use getByteLength instead of getBitLength.
 - Fixed several bugs.

TCP:
 - Refactored and cleaned up TCP header options.
 - Fixed scaling window bug (Martin Becke).

Network Layer:
 - Factored out the network topology extraction algorithm from IPv4NetworkConfigurator
   into a base class.
 - Added support to IPv4NetworkConfigurator for computing wireless shortest path
   based on a simple packet error rate estimation.
 - Added netmaskRoutes parameter to IPv4RoutingTable to control whether netmask
   routes are maintained or not.
 - Added useAdminDist parameter to IPv4RoutingTable to enable/disable the use
   of Cisco specific routing entry extension (disabled by default).
 - Added IGMPv3 implementation (the orinal code came from the ANSA project).
   It has been almost fully rewritten and extended by Tamas Borbely.

Routing:
 - Added PIM-DM and PIM-SM implementation. The original codebase (from the ANSA project
   http://nes.fit.vutbr.cz/ansa) has been extensively reviewed, refactored and
   extended by Tamas Borbely.

Configurator:
 - Refactored supported metrics (hopCount, delay, dataRate, errorRate) and related
   parameters in IPv4NetworkConfigurator.
 - Added autoroute XML configuration element to IPv4NetworkConfigurator. It provides
   parameters for the automatic route discovery. The autoroute element determines
   the set of routing tables that will be modified, the set of destinations for
   which the shortest path will be computed, the used metric and the cost for nodes
   and links.

Link layer:
 - Added TUN/TAP virtual network interfaces thanks to Irene Ruengeler. This kind
   of interfaces send/receive packets to/from TUN applications.
 - Updated the 802.11 MAC implementation to use the new 802.11 mode descriptors.
 - Replaced the old 802.11 operational mode and modulation descriptor classes.
   This change modifies the fingerprint of a few simulations, because the header
   length was computed incorrectly.
 - Changed the 802.11 MAC to use asynchronous commands to set the radio mode.
 - Updated the 802.11 MAC state machine diagram (graphviz) to reflect the current
   state of the implementation.
 - Added safety guard to the 802.11 MAC against recursively calling handleWithFSM.
 - Fixed packet order in transmissionQueue.
 - Renamed getNetworkInterfaceModule to getInterfaceModule in InterfaceEntry.
 - Improved response time on external interfaces. On Linux cSocketScheduler is now
   using immediate mode to reduce the CPU usage while still maintaining a fast
   sub millisec response time (Artur Scussel). On Windows and MAC OS X the polling
   interval was reduced to improve the response time.
 - Added support for sending NF_LINK_BREAK signal from BMAC and CSMA. This is
   required for certain routing protocols (i.e. AODV) to function properly.
 - Extended Ethernet macs accept raw packet

Physical layer:
 - Extended the physical layer contract interfaces for layered implementations.
 - Added signal representations for packet domain, bit domain, symbol domain,
   sample domain and analog domain, and also added contracts for the processing
   components in all of these domains.
 - Added a detailed 802.11 OFDM physical layer implementation that supports
   packet-level, bit-level, and symbol-level simulations in compliant, and also
   in freely configurable non-compliant operational modes.
 - Replaced the old 802.11 operational mode and modulation descriptor classes.
   The new classes are more detailed and more complete implementations. They
   supports both the flat and the layered physical layer models and provide PHY
   characteristics. The implemented 802.11 modes are: DSSS, HR-DSSS, FHSS, IR,
   OFDM, ERP-OFDM.
 - Added IEEE 802.11 High Throughput mode descriptor. This mode is defined in
   Clause 20. High Throughput (HT) PHY specification in the IEEE 802.11-2012
   specification. The new HT mode makes available the Wifi n modes in the
   Ieee80211ModeSet.
 - Added a simple hypothetical APSK physical layer implementation that supports
   packet-level, bit-level, and symbol-level simulations with widely configurable
   bit-domain and symbol-domain parameters.
 - Consistently moved packet level and bit level implementations into separate
   subdirectories throughout the physical layer.
 - Added a generic convolutional encoder/decoder, a generic additive
   scrambler/descrambler, and a 802.11 specific interleaver/deinterleaver.
 - Added a separate modulations folder that contains descriptor classes for
   various keying techniques such as BPSK, QPSK, QAM16, QAM64, QAM256, MQAM,
   DBPSK, DQPSK, MASK, MFSK, MPSK, DSSS-OQPSK-16, etc.
 - Reimplemented the computation of BER and SER based on the SNIR for the QAM-like
   modulations according to wikipedia.
 - Added a special IntervalTree cache for efficiently computing arrival intervals
   for transmissions. This change drastically increases the physical layer
   performance for large networks with lots of ongoing transmissions.
 - Refactored the radio medium model to support the optional representation of
   PHY frames for the layered physical layer models.
 - Refactored the medium analog model to simultaneously support the new layered
   and the already existing flat radio signal models.
 - Refactored the existing 802.11 statistical error models to use the new
   operation mode descriptors.
 - Extracted the BER table based 802.11 statistical error model into a separate
   class. This change modifies the fingerprint of simulations that use this
   error model.
 - Added a new detailed 802.11 error model that computes erroneous packet
   domain, bit domain or symbol domain signal representations.
 - Added 802.11 OFDM PHY frame serializer.
 - Extracted separate CommunicationCache classes from RadioMedium.
 - Extracted separate CommunicationLog class from RadioMedium.
 - Extracted a separate MediumLimitCache module from RadioMedium.
 - Extracted a separate MediumVisualizer module from RadioMedium.
 - Added optional recent communication heat map to MediumVisualizer.
 - Renamed radio control info classes to TransmissionRequest and ReceptionIndication.
 - Added Ieee80211TransmissionRequest with an optional IIeee80211Mode parameter
   to allow the mac module to determine the exact physical layer operational mode.
 - Added CosineAntenna and ParabolicAntenna.
 - Added basic antenna array support to be used with 802.11 HT modes.
 - Added arrival parameter to computeReceptionPower. Added snir parameter to
   computeIsReceptionSuccessful. Added snir parameter to computeReceptionDecision.
 - Added level parameter to printToStream function to better support logging.
 - Fixed the indefinite heap growth bug in the RadioMedium.

Tests:
 - Added separate automated tests for convolutional encoding/decoding,
   interleaving/deinterleaving, scrambling/descrambling, modulation/demodulation
   and various combinations.

Examples:
 - Added a new detailed 802.11 OFDM radio example that supports configurable
   packet-level, bit-level, and symbol-level simulations for model verification.
 - Also added a simple hypothetical APSK radio example that supports configurable
   packet-level, bit-level, and symbol-level simulations for model verification.
 - Added a work in progress Wireless tutorial in the tutorials/wireless folder.


INET-2.99.0 (November 2014) - Development
-----------------------------------------

This release is a snapshot of the development that has begun in early 2013, and
will culminate in the release of INET-3.0. The code is work in progress, which
means all details may still change until 3.0 is reached.

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or later.

The highlights of this release are:

 1. Network layer refactoring that allows higher layer protocols (including
    routing protocols) to be written in a network protocol agnostic manner.

 2. A new physical layer model that builds upon the INET and MiXiM physical
    layers, and brings them to new heights. Design goals were extreme modularity,
    extensibility, the ability to support (and easily switch between) various
    levels of detail, and the ability to add support for exploiting various
    pieces of parallel hardware.

 3. Extensive refactoring aimed at improving code quality. It includes
    directory restructuring, code formatting, refactoring of init stages and
    publish-subscribe communication, and more.

Read on for further details.

Geometry model:

 - Added new orientation related classes: EulerAngles, Rotation, and Quaternion.
 - Added new basic 3D geometry classes: LineSegment, Box, Plane, and Polygon.
 - Added new 3D convex shapes: Cuboid, Sphere, Prism, and Polyhedron.
 - Added new geometry cache data structures: SpatialGrid, QuadTree, and BVHTree.

Physical environment model:

 - Removed obsolete classes: Obstacle, ObstacleControl, and AnnotationManager.
 - Implemented a completely new physical environment model as follows.
 - Added a new global PhysicalEnvironment module that provides some trivial
   global properties: temperature, space limits, and a list of physical objects.
 - Added a new PhysicalObject class that has shape, position, orientation,
   material, and various graphics properties.
 - Added a new Material class along with some default materials: vacuum, air,
   copper, aluminium, wood, brick, concrete, and glass.
 - Added a new IObjectCache interface for efficient physical object queries
   along a line segment.
 - Added IObjectCache implementations: GridObjectCache and BVHObjectCache.
 - Added an XML file format to initialize the physical environment with shapes,
   materials, and physical objects.
 - Added support for drawing the physical objects on a compound module canvas
   (Tkenv) in 2D as seen from a configured view angle.
 - Added examples that demonstrate the initialization and usage of the physical
   environment, the physical objects, and the configuration of the object cache.

Power model:

 - Removed obsolete classes: IBattery, BasicBattery, InetSimpleBattery and Energy.
 - Implemented a completely new power model.
 - Added new interfaces: IEnergyConsumer, IEnergyStorage, and IEnergyGenerator.
 - Added implementations: IdealEnergyStorage, and SimpleEnergyStorage.
 - Added a new power consumer implementation for radios based on the radio mode,
   the reception state, and the transmission state: StateBasedEnergyConsumer.

Physical layer:

 - Refactored and unified the existing INET and MiXiM physical layer models into
   a new extended and scalable model as follows.
 - Designed new interfaces and classes to support optimistic parallel computation
   of reception results utilizing multicore CPUs and/or GPUs.
 - Designed new model that supports different level of details with respect to
   transmitters, receivers, radio signals, antennas, propagation models, etc.
 - Added new radio signal power representations: scalar and dimensional over
   time, frequency, space, etc.
 - Added various performance vs. accuracy tradeoff configuration options (e.g.
   range filter, radio mode filter, listening mode filter, MAC address filter)
 - Added concurrent transmitter and receiver radio mode (transceiver mode).
 - Added separate controllable radio mode and automatic signaling of reception
   state and transmission state.
 - Added configurable non-zero time radio mode switching.
 - Added separate power consumption model based on the radio mode, the reception
   state and the transmission state.
 - Added support for burst mode (back to back) transmissions.
 - Introduced compile time checked physical units in C++ code to avoid conversion
   errors and to enhance self documentation.

Physical layer radio model:

 - Removed obsolete classes: Radio, IdealRadio, GenericRadio, GenericRadioModel,
   IRadio, IRadioModel, INoiseGenerator, and some others.
 - Added new interfaces: IRadio, IAntenna, ITransmitter, IReceiver, and IErrorModel.
 - Added new implementation classes: Radio, IdealRadio, ScalarRadio,
   DimensionalRadio, Ieee80211Radio, and Ieee802154UWBIRRadio.
 - Added a number of implementation base classes and subcomponents unlisted here.
 - Added and updated error model implementations: FlatErrorModel,
   Ieee80211NistErrorModel, Ieee80211YansErrorModel
 - Introduced controllable radio mode: off, sleep, receiver, transmitter,
   transceiver, and switching.
 - Introduced automatically signaled reception state: undefined, idle, busy,
   synchronizing and receiving.
 - Introduced automatically signaled transmission state: undefined, transmitting.
 - Added new antenna classes: IsotropicAntenna, ConstantGainAntenna,
   DipoleAntenna, and InterpolatingAntenna.

Physical layer radio medium model:

 - Removed obsolete classes: ChannelAccess ChannelControl, IdealChannelModel,
   IdealChannelModelAccess and some others.
 - Added new interfaces to model the radio medium: IRadioMedium, IPropagation,
   IBackgroundNoise, IPathLoss, IObstacleLoss, IAttenuation, and INeighborCache.
 - Added new implementation classes: RadioMedium, IdealRadioMedium,
   ScalarRadioMedium, DimensionalRadioMedium, Ieee80211RadioMedium, and
   Ieee802154UWBIRRadioMedium.
 - Added propagation models: ConstantTimePropagation and ConstantSpeedPropagation.
 - Added background noise source models: ScalarIsotropicBackgroundNoise and
   DimensionalIsotropicBackgroundNoise.
 - Refactored existing path loss models: FreeSpacePathLoss, LogNormalShadowing,
   TwoRayGroundReflection, NakagamiFading, RayleighFading, RicianFading, and
   SUIPathLoss.
 - Added new path loss models: BreakpointPathLoss and UWBIRStochasticPathLoss
   from MiXiM.
 - Added a new obstacle loss model: TracingObstacleLoss.
 - Added INeighborCache implementations: ListNeighborCache, GridNeighborCache,
   and QuadTreeNeighborCache.

Physical layer communication model:

 - Removed obsolete classes: AirFrame, IdealAirFrame and SnrList.
 - Added new interfaces: IRadioFrame, ITransmission, IArrival, IReception,
   INoise, ISNIR, IListening, and IReceptionDecision.
 - Added new implementation classes: RadioFrame, Arrival, Interference,
   ScalarSNIR, DimensionalSNIR.
 - Added a number of implementation base classes unlisted here.
 - Added range based, narrow band scalar and dimensional signal power
   representations for transmissions, receptions, and noise.

Link layer:

 - Added a simple MAC protocol for testing purposes: IdealMac.
 - Ported MAC protocols from MiXiM: CSMA, BMACLayer, and LMacLayer.

Network layer:

 - IPv4/IPv6: dynamic registration of upper layer protocols.
   TCP, UDP, SCTP, RSVP, OSPF, MANET are all merged into transport gates.
   Network user modules must register their protocol number by sending
   an IPRegisterProtocolCommand from initialize().
   Introduced an IPSocket class that wraps the registration process.

 - Refactoring: routing tables and routes now implement a common IRoutingTable
   and IRoute C++ interface (details below)

   Motivation: allow uniform access to the IPv4, IPv6 and possibly other routing tables;
   e.g. some wireless networks may use MAC address as network address. Also, in
   simulation it sometimes makes sense to work with simple abstract addresses like
   module names, indices or IDs.

   Being able to uniformly access routing tables containing different types of
   addresses makes it possible to implement routing protocols in generic way.
   I.e. the same DYMO module can work with IPv4, IPv6, MAC and other addresses
   without change and recompiling.

   Ingredients of this patch:
    - generic L3Address class that can hold all kinds of addresses (=union)
    - interfaces for generic access: IRoutingTable, IRoute, INetworkDatagram, etc.
    - Ping refactoring (use generic addressing instead of hardcoded IPv4, IPv6)
    - merged routing table change notification constants for IPv4 and IPv6

 - NetworkLayer was renamed to IPv4NetworkLayer and moved into src/networklayer/ipv4;
   same for IPv6 (NetworkLayer6 -> IPv6NetworkLayer).

 - IPvXAddress ha been extended and renamed to L3Address. Similarly,
   IPvXAddressResolver became L3AddressResolver. In addition to IPv4 and IPv6
   addresses, L3Address also allows using other kinds of addresses and identifiers
   (e.g. MACAddress, module IDs, module paths) for network-layer addressing.

 - Added GenericNetworkProtocol, which is a simplified network protocol with
   table-based forwarding. It uses L3Address, so it is agnostic to the network-layer
   address type.

 - Added MultiNetworkLayer, which is a wrapper for multiple network layers; in
   practice it can be used for simulating IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack hosts.

 - Ported network protocols from MiXiM: Flood, ProbabilisticBroadcast, and WiseRoute.

C++ source cleanup:

 - Changed include directives to specify the full path of the header file. This
   resolves ambiguities caused by different projects having similar header files,
   and by case-insensitive file systems (Windows).

 - Changed header guards to use a uniform syntax.

 - Applied code formatting (whitespace, braces, etc.) Formatter script (based on
   uncrustify) is under _scripts/reformat, for future formatting needs.

 - Introduced C++ namespaces: inet, inet::utils, inet::ospf, inet::bgp, inet::sctp, etc.

 - Init stages have been refactored: initialization is now done bottom-up,
   by layers, and hardcoded init stage numbers have been replaced by symbolic
   constants.

 - Removed NotificationBoard and INotifiable: all modules now use OMNeT++ signals
   for publish/subscribe communication.

 - Improved logging: log messages have been classified by importance, and logging
   to EV has been replaced by EV_ERROR, EV_WARN, EV (for EV_INFO), EV_DETAIL,
   EV_DEBUG and EV_TRACE accordingly. Proper support for these log categories
   will be available from OMNeT++ 5.0, for 4.x they are simply mapped to EV.

 - Several modules have been adapted to the coding conventions, e.g. the RTP models.

Directory reorganization:

 - Moved src/ under src/inet/ to avoid header conflicts with 3rd party software.

 - base/ and util/ have been consolidated into common/ and its several subdirectories
   (e.g. common/misc/, common/geometry/, common/queue/, common/lifecycle/)

 - queue/ has become common/queue/.

 - Routing protocols have been moved into the new routing/ toplevel directory
   from networklayer/routing/, networklayer/bgpv4 and networklayer/ospfv2/.

 - Protocols in networklayer/manetrouting/ have been moved into routing/extras/.

 - transport/ has been renamed to transportlayer/.

 - battery/ has been replaced by power/, intended to hold models for power management
   related components.

 - The physicallayer/ toplevel directory has been created to hold the new physical
   layer model.

 - The environment/ toplevel directory has been created for models that represent
   the global physical environment.

 - world/ no longer exists, its contents has been distributed to other directories.

 - status/ lives on as common/lifecycle/.

 - networklayer/autorouting/ has become networklayer/configurator/.

 - applications/httptools/ has been split up to several subdirectories: browser/,
   server/, configurator/, common/.


INET 2.6 (March 05, 2015) - Stable
----------------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.4 or later. It contains the following changes:

   - made compatible with OMNeT++ 5.0b1
   - added OLIA for CMT-SCTP (by Martin Becke)
   - added a trace player feature to NetPerfMeter
   - fixed compile errors when using OMNeT++ 5.0b1
   - fixed an issue with too small initial value of 'ssthreshold' in TCP
   - fixed window scaling in TCP
   - added INET_VERSION macro (in hexadecimal form e.g.: 0x0206)


INET 2.5.1 (November 7, 2014)
-----------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.4.

Changes:

   - fixed a crash in SCTP
   - now builds with all features turned off


INET 2.5.0 (October 29, 2014)
-----------------------------

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.4.

Changes:

   - made the codebase compile in C++11 mode. (required by OMNeT++ 4.6)
   - added netperfmeter application by Thomas Dreibholz


INET-2.4.0 (June 12, 2014)
--------------------------

New AODV protocol implementation:

   - From-scratch AODV implementation backported from the integration
     branch; see src/network/routing/

Changes:

   - Added support for link break detection in IdealWireless
     (using the NF_LINK_BREAK signal)
   - VoIPStream updated to match the latest version of ffmpeg library.
   - Added packet printers that can dump packet data in OMNeT++ 4.5/Tkenv
     in the packet trace window.
   - Fixed non-conformant 802.11 WAITACK timeout computation


INET-2.3.0 (March 17, 2014)
---------------------------

This release contains several new protocols, and a lot of changes that were
backported from the current integration branch (destined to be INET 3.0).
This release requires OMNeT++ 4.3.

Application startTime/stopTime fixes:

   - apps start sending at startTime, and send their last packet
     before stopTime
   - negative stopTime means sending forever
   - if startTime and stopTime are the same, the app sends a single
     packet only (except TCP apps)

DHCPServer and Client:

   - The whole implementation has been reviewed to bring it closer to
     the standards defined in RFC 2131 and 2132.

   - Major changes were made both in client's and server's state machines.
     It is now extended with new states (INIT-REBOOT, REBOOTING) and
     with new message types (DHCPNAK, DHCPDECLINE). The new states allow
     the user to model scenarios with lifecycle events.

   - The server's performance model has been removed.

   - The internal representation of the DHCP options were moved to the
     DHCPOptions INET message definition file.

   - Limitation: The client module currently does not support multiple
     DHCP servers and BOOTP relay agents.

SCTP improvements submitted by Irene Rungeler and Thomas Dreibholz:

   - added CMT support (Concurrent Multipath Transfer)
   - added SCTP NAT support
   - added support for using SCTP over IPv6

STP / RSTP support (802.1d) added to the EthernetSwitch:

   - STP: added IEEE 802.1D-1998 implementation of Spanning Tree Protocol.
     The source code is based on the ANSA (https://github.com/kvetak/ANSA)
     implementation.

   - RSTP: added IEEE 802.1D-2004 implementation of Spanning Tree Protocol.
     The source code is based on Juan Luis Garrote Molinero's implementation
     from INETMANET.

   - Interfaces can be configured using the new L2NetworkConfigurator module.
     This module allows one to configure network scenarios at Layer 2.

   - Replaced the EtherSwitch relay unit with a new, STP/RSTP capable one.
     The CPU and memory modelling are no longer supported in this relay unit.

Nodes automatically pick-up the network configuration on restart:

   - An IPv4NodeConfigurator module has been added to hosts, which is responsible
     for configuring the host on restart based on information stored in the
     IPv4NetworkConfigurator module.

INetFilter::IHook API:

   Modules can now hook into the IP module with the new 'NetFilter' API.
   Routing protocols can be implemented now without modifying the IP
   module's code. ManetRoutingBase, InternetCloud and ARP have been updated
   to use the new 'NetFilter' API.

Added new routing protocols:

   - RIP (networklayer/routing/rip)
   - GPSR (networklayer/routing/gpsr)
   - DYMO (networklayer/routing/dymo)
   These protocols use INetFilter::IHook, too.

Revised Mobility code:

   Split the 'models' directory into multiple directories:
   - contract - specifies the interface of mobility models
   - common - shared files among mobility models that are not complete
     mobility models
   - static - mobility models that actually don't move
   - single - mobility models controlling only one moving object
   - group - mobility models controlling multiple interlinked moving objects

Radio:

    Added the Stanford University Interim radio propagation model contributed
    by Konrad Polys and Krzysztof Grochla.

Other, smaller changes:

  - Added ILifecycle support to most applications
  - Renamed AppBase to ApplicationBase and moved to 'common'.
  - UDP: added option to specify the source address of the sent datagram
  - UDPBasicBurst: added bool parameter: excludeLocalDestAddresses
  - UDPVideoStreamCli: use stages in initialize
  - UDPApp*: Added AppBase and subclassed UDP apps from it.
    Binds sockets at startTime and closes them at stopTime.
  - EtherApp* bugfixes
  - Added a command to set TCP queue length threshold. TCP will notify the
    application if it is ready to transmit more bytes.
  - registerSignal() calls were moved from initialize() to static
    variable declarations.
  - Added/fixed @signal declarations, fixed the type of emitted values.
  - httptools: removed the fileExists() function.
  - New logging mechanism + EV handling in preparation for the new OMNeT++ 5.0
    logging mechanism.
  - IPv4Route/IPv6Route: added administrative distance field
  - Added IPv6 header serializer (so ext interfaces can be used with IPv6, too)
  - Invalid access of message pointers fixed in: OSPF, SCTP, DHCP, PingApp

  - Battery: code review, small fixes.
  - Revised init stages in all modules
  - Many smaller fixes and improvements (see the ChangeLog files for further detail.)


INET-2.2.0 (August 22, 2013)
----------------------------

The main highlight of this release is the long-sought support for
simulating node shutdown/restart events for network nodes.
This release requires OMNeT++ 4.2 or later.

New features:

1. Lifecycle infrastructure.

   For node shutdown/crash/startup/etc, a LifecycleOperation (e.g.
   NodeShutdownOperation) is applied to the submodule tree of the  node
   (host or router) by LifecycleController. Each module can decide how
   to handle the operation and how to store the resulting state (up/down,etc).
   Operations can be multi-stage, and don't need to complete immediately
   (i.e. they can take nonzero simulation time and multiple events to complete).

   Network nodes now also have a status submodule (type NodeStatus) with the sole
   purpose of storing the whole node's status (up/down) and displaying it
   via icons.

    - classes: ILifecycle, LifecycleOperation (NodeOperation, InterfaceOperation),
      LifecycleController, NodeStatus
    - NodeStatus module to store the network node's status (up or down)
    - added optional NodeStatus submodule to NodeBase
    - added a test for the basic Lifecycle infrastructure

   We also removed obsolete ways of shutdown/restart: FailureManager, PowerControl,
   LDP_FAILED/RSVP_FAILED, etc.

2. Static IP4 configuration:

   A new module, IPv4NodeConfigurator was added to IPv4NetworkLayer. This module
   is necessary because IPv4NetworkConfigurator cannot configure the node after
   a restart (see newly introduced node lifecycle operations above), since
   being a global module, it doesn't know about node lifecycle events. The new
   module listens to node lifecycle events, and configures the node's routing
   table and interfaces according to configuration computed by the network's
   global IPv4NetworkConfigurator module. Initialization-time node configuration
   is also carried out by the new module.

3. Added TCP Vegas and Westwood algorithms.

   The implementation is a slightly improved version of a 2013 workshop submission:
   "INET framework extensions for TCP Vegas and TCP Westwood", Maria Fernandez,
   Carlos Calafate, Juan-Carlos Cano and Pietro Manzoni. OMNeT++ Workshop, 2013.
   http://www.omnet-workshop.org/2013/uploads/slides/OMNeT-Workshop2013-SP-4.pdf

4. Added IdealWirelessNic (IdealRadio + IdealWirelessMac) and IdealWirelessFrame msg.

   This is a highly abstracted wireless NIC that consists of a unit disk radio
   and a trivial MAC protocol. It offers simplicity for scenarios where Layer 1
   and Layer 2 effects can be completely ignored, for example testing the basic
   functionality of a wireless ad-hoc routing protocol.

   The most important parameter this model accepts is the transmission range.
   When a radio transmits a frame, all other radios within transmission range
   will receive the frame correctly, and radios out of range will not be
   affected at all. There are no collisions -- a radio can simultaneously
   receive any number of frames, and also transmit a single frame at the same time.

5. STCP received several new features (patches submitted by Irene Ruengeler):
   - 8 new strategies for SCTP stream scheduling
   - SCTP Stream Reset (RFC 6525)
   - SCTP Authentication (RFC 4895)
   - Add-IP feature for SCTP (RFC 5061)
   - NR_SACK feature to SCTP
   - Partial Reliability SCTP (RFC 3758)
   - SCTP packet drop feature  (draft-stewart-sctp-pktdrprep-15.txt)
   - SCTP "sack immediately" feature (draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-sack-immediately)
   - several alternatives to send fast retransmissions on SCTP

6. Loopback interface added

   Loopback used to be a special case inside the IPv4/IPv6 modules, now it
   is handled completely like any other interface, with a separate Loopback
   module.

7. EtherSwitch, AccessPoint:

   Bare EtherMAC modules have been replaced with EthernetInterface, so that
   external queues can be used (useful for e.g. QoS).

8. InterfaceTable, NIC, NetworkLayer:

   Revert to earlier behavior of determining networkLayerGateIndex.
   Now the module connected to a NIC *must* have gate vectors called ifIn and ifOut.
   If it doesn't, the code decides that the NIC is *not* directly connected to
   a network layer, and leaves networkLayerGateIndex unfilled.

Other, smaller changes:

  - MANET protocols have been synchronized with the INETMANET project
  - NodeBase: added optional battery (off by default)
  - UDP: implemented ReuseAddress option (it's like SO_REUSEADDR socket
    option in Linux). If ReuseAddress is set to true on two sockets,
    then they can bind to the same local address/port.
  - PingApp and other apps: for the stopTime parameter, 'none' is now represented
    by -1, not 0. As this is the default setting, likely very few simulations
    (ini files) are affected.
  - IPv4NetworkConfigurator: added @groups to <interface> (ie. multicast groups
    can now be also specified in the <interface> element, not only in a separate
    <multicast-group> element)
  - in many simulation examples, .irt files were replaced by IPv4NetworkConfigurator XML.
  - EtherMACFullDuplex: wait IFG *after* frames, not before.
  - Ieee80211Mac: added signals declarations and statistics in the NED file
  - EthernetInterface: the encap submodule was made replaceable ("like IEtherEncap")
  - NED: Added InterfaceTable unconditionally to bridge devices, as it is currently
    required by IPv4NetworkConfigurator. Also added NotificationBoard required by
    InterfaceTable.
  - IPv4NetworkConfigurator: Changed to support mixed wired and wireless LANs
    for autoconfiguration.
  - Fixed IPv4NetworkConfigurator bug sometimes not being able to assign addresses.
    Changed to assign most constrained addresses first.
  - RTPHost was moved from src/transport to src/nodes/, and changed to be based
    on StandardHost
  - TurtleMobility: Fixed getting the position from a mobility signal listener
    during initialization. The script was resumed before initialize() finished,
    resulting in incorrect positioning.
  - StaticGridMobility: Added new parameters to specify the number of rows/columns
    and the horizontal/verical separation between the nodes. Note that the way
    the node positions are calculated has changed. You may need to update your
    INI files (see the NED file for more info.)
  - Many smaller fixes and improvements


INET-2.1.0 (Jan 31, 2013)
-------------------------

NEW:

  - Added a new module to model an "internet cloud". The component can
    be configured to model packet delay, datarate and drop probability
    between each input-output interface pair. The parameter matrix
    is provided as an XML configuration file. See the README file
    in src/nodes/internetcloud for further details.
  - New SimpleVoIPReceiver/Sender applications that gather MOS (Mean
    Opinion Score) for measuring voice quality.
  - Added HNA support to the Batman protocol (MANET)

CHANGED:

Applications:
  - PingApp: Shows the configured destination address at the end of the
    simulation.
  - TCPBasicClientApp: bugfix #611: simulation generated an ASSERT if
    numRequestsPerSession parameter value larger than 1.
  - TcpApp: socket state is now shown on the GUI (in Echo, Sink and Session apps.)
  - VoipTool: was renamed to VoIPStream (The actual module names are
    VoIPStreamSender/Receiver.)

Ethernet:
  - Transmission channel's 'disabled' parameter is now correctly handled in
    EtherMacBase.

Ieee80211Mac:
  - Better parameter processing in MAC: error is thrown if an undefined value
    is specified for the opmode or autoBitrate parameters.
  - Added the Ieee80211Descriptor class to assign modulation speed
    and type for the different opModes.
  - Bugfix: Default bitrate for opMode 'p' was incorrectly set.

BGP:
  - Minor optimizations
  - Bugfix: The text in specification "sets the ConnectRetryTimer to zero" means:
    restart this timer. The _connectRetryTime member now stores the timeout value.

Manetrouting:
  - updated documentation
  - replaced Uint128 with ManetNetworkAddress
  - removed:
      - unused ManetTimer and BatmanTimer class
      - unused static variables
      - isIpLocalAddress(), uses isLocalAddress()
      - convertAddressToString()
      - getXPos(), getYPos() functions, you should use getPosition()
        instead.
  - redesigned coordinate and speed storage and access.
    replaced double x,y with a Coord.  getDirection() now returns the
    speed vector (as a Coord)
  - getters returns UNSPECIFIED_ADDRESS if addrType==UNDEFINED
  - merged sendToIp() code into a common base function sendToIpOnIface()

AODV:
  - AODV's hand-written descriptors were replaced with generated ones
    [with A.Varga]
  - aodv_msg_struct.h: added getter methods expected by the generated
    descriptors removed hand-written aodv_msg_struct_descriptor.cc

Batman:
  - Updated and expanded documentation
  - Updated the code to match the latest available "batmand" version.
  - Numerous optimizations
  - Fixed several memory leaks
  - Fixed routing table corruption and possible crash when multiple
    radios were used in a single host
  - Fixed decapsulation of incoming packets. Now it checks for the
    type of decapsulated packet.
  - Fix for a problem when aggregated batman packets were
    dropped erronously.
  - Added HNA support. Nodes can advertise external networks,
    so traffic towards those networks can be routed correctly.
    Use the announcedNetworks parameter to specify multiple connected
    external networks.
  - Added SourceModifier script to help the conversion from the original
    batmand code.
    - fixes spaces, tabs and empty lines
    - replaces some c-style structs to c++-style classes
    - replaces some batmand specified list manipulators with c++ code
    - replaces malloc/free with new/delete
    - removes prof_start()/prof_stop() calls

Examples:
  - Added a new simulation with wired and wireless hosts exchanging UDP
    data via an AccessPoint. It shows how to use the IPv4NetworkConfigurator
    to mix wired and wireless networks.
  - Fixes for BGP examples.
  - New example to demonstrate HNA support in Batman.
  - Hostautoconf examample moved to the adhoc folder.

Other changes:
  - Uint128 class was removed. Use ManetNetworkAddress class instead.
  - Visual changes in StandardHost/NodeBase: utility module icons are
    now smaller and wlan[]/PingApp[] modules are displayed in a row.
  - NodeBase: it is possible to use mobility module even if numRadios = 0
  - Added check for detecting too small netmask parameter value in
    HostAutoConfigurator
  - PacketDump: TCP header option fix (dumped only in verbose mode.)
  - Bugfix #620. The module pointer returned by a ModuleAccess class is
    now cached only if get() was used. For get(module) no caching is done.
  - MACAddress: made the constructor explicit so we will not see
    unexpected implicit conversions in future
  - IPv6Address: removed Uint128 related functions and added an
    additional constructMask() method
  - headerserializers: compile fix for Visual C++ 10.0 and later
  - Pcap now records on ALL interfaces by default (including external IFs).
    Added Enter_Method for better error reporting if a packet cannot be
    serialized. Also added an icon for PcapRecorder.
  - Several TCP related fixes.


INET-2.0.0 (August 7, 2012)
---------------------------

If you are upgrading from an earlier INET version (i.e. INET 20111118),
expect to have to revise your existing omnetpp.ini files and possibly
NED/C++ files as well.

Changes since 1.99.5:

The DHCP protocol received several fixes. It is now possible to use DHCP
with both wired and wireless interfaces.

MANET routing protocols updated from INETMANET-2.0 @ 9a3dc7a
OLSR protocol received several patches allowing it to work with multiple
radios. It can work now on both wired and wireless interfaces.

Ieee80211:
  - bugfix: The latest version of INET (1.99.5) contained a bug where
    speed values for 11MBps and 12MBps were swapped.
  - A new "bitrate" parameter was added to the Ieee80211Nic module.
    The Radio and MAC module uses this bitrate to set thir own bitrate
    value. Its default value is 11Mbps for 802.11b, 27Mbps for 802.11p
    and 54Mbps for 802.11g and  802.11a. (i.e. the default bitrate depends
    on the opMode parameter) This can avoid potential configuration
    inconsitencies. UPDATE all your INI files accordingly.

The Ethernet module now throws an error message if two ethernet ports are
connected using an IdealChannel. Previously it just silently ignored the
connection that was definitely against the "least surprise" principle.

A new "Delayer" module has been added and DropsGenerator and DuplicatesGenerator
has been renamed to OrdinalBasedDropper and OrdinalBasedDuplicator respectively.
These modules implement the IHook module interface and can be installed inside
hosts to induce different packet errors. IHook modules can be inserted
between the network and link layer protocols.

The Ext-interface, TraCI, Mobility and Ping modules received some minor fixes.
See ChangeLogs in individual source folders for more information.


INET-1.99.5 (June 22, 2012)
---------------------------

This is the final testing version of the 1.99.x series leading to the 2.0
release. Requires OMNeT++ 4.2 (version 4.2.2 suggested).

Several OSPF fixes and changes in configuration (see the ChangeLog file
in the OSPF folder for details):
  - improved error detection in xml config files
  - replaced the ospfConfigFile string-type ned parameter with ospfConfig parameter (xml type)
  - uses IPvXAddressResolver for reading IP address and IP netmask values from xml
  - uses @name instead @id to identify the routers in the xml config
  - most attributes in xml config became optional, and default values
      come from ned the parameters of OSPFRouting (with same name)
  - modified xml schema: converted most subnodes to attributes
  - Added etc/OSPFold_to_OSPFnew.xsl for converting the old xml format to new, and
      converted all the ospf config files to the new format in the examples folder
      (after using the converter you must convert router@id to router@name by hand).
  - added @toward attribute to XML for easier interface specification
      old: interfaces were specified by their name (e.g. ifName="eth0").
      new: interfaces can be specified either by their name (e.g. ifName="eth0"),
      or by the name of a module the interface is connected to (e.g. toward="Area3.N9")
  - fixed OSPF.xsd schema

Queueing components:
  The networklayer/queue folder has moved to linklayer/queue folder as
  queues are mostly used in linklayer. This is a new framework that can be
  used to create more complex systems.
  Old queuing components has been removed:
   - DropTailQosQueue, REDQueue, WeightedFairQueue
   - IQoSClassifier (moved to linklayer/ieee80211/mac)
   - BasicDSCPClassifier
  Some of them can be substituted by compound modules composed of these newly
  added components:
   - FIFOQueue
   - REDDropper
   - ThresholdDropper
   - PriorityScheduler
   - WRRScheduler
  For example REDQueue is a combination of a REDDropper and a FIFOQueue,
  and DropTailQosQueue is a combination of some classifier, DropTailQueues,
  and a PriorityScheduler. Read the INET Manual (in doc folder) for more
  information about the usage of these modules.

Brand new Differentiated Services component (using the Queueing framework)
that is implementing the following standards:
  - RFC 2474: Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in
    the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers
  - RFC 2475: An Architecture for Differentiated Services
  - RFC 2597: Assured Forwarding PHB Group
  - RFC 2697: A Single Rate Three Color Marker
  - RFC 2698: A Two Rate Three Color Marker
  - RFC 3246: An Expedited Forwarding PHB (Per-Hop Behavior)
  - RFC 3290: An Informal Management Model for Diffserv Routers


New send method on UDPSocket now allows to specify on which interface
the packets should be sent out.

Added DHCP protocol implementation by Juan Carlos Maureira
taken over from INETMANET-2.0 @ 7fb431b. It can be deployed just
like any other UDP apps.

MANET routing protocols updated from INETMANET-2.0 @ 7fb431b
The whole manetrouting directory was taken over.

Mobility: Added two new mobility models:
  - TraCI + TraCIScenarioManager to connect with an external server
  - LinearNodeDistribution - static hosts in a single line in
    ANY direction

IPv4Route: removed the "type" attribute from the routing entries

VoIPTool: Now compiles with the latest version of ffmpeg libs

IGMPv2: external routers attached to the IGMP module are now
responsible for implementing the IGMP router logic (emitting queries
and processing group membership reports). In this case the IGMP
module passes all incoming IGMP messages to the external router.

Updated 802.11 model from INETMANET-2.0 @ 7fb431b (minor bugfixes)
All files are synced. The following features were omitted:
MULTIQUEUES, HWMP and MESH networking related code.
The default wireless NIC is now using the latest 802.11 code from
INETMANET. The Ieee80211NewNic was renamed to Ieee80211Nic. With
the new NIC it is now possible set the operating mode (a,b,g,p)
The original Ieee80211 implementation was removed to avoid confusion.

The ancient 802.11 implementation from the mobility framework was removed
(i.e. the mf80211 directory).

Added HostAutoConfigurator module (should be added inside a host)
This configurator is deprecated and should be used ONLY if the hosts are
dynamically created/deleted during the simulation. Otherwise please use the
new IPv4NetworkConfigurator.

IPv4NetworkConfigurator: Examples have been updated to use this configurator.
XML configuration format changes:
  - added @among attribute for interface and multicast-group entries:
    "among='X Y Z'"   means   "hosts='X Y Z' towards='X Y Z'"
  - added @metric attribute for interface entry in XML
  - added @id attribute for wireless entry
  - several smaller bugfixes and documentation changes (see ChangeLog
    in the directory)

IPv4 fix: subnet directed broadcast (e.g. 192.168.1.255) works now:
When the datagram reaches the router of the subnet, it should
be forwarded as a link layer broadcast.

Changes in link layer
  - added INic moduleinterface, all other network interfaces should
    implement this
  - renamed the netwIn, netwOut gates to upperLayerIn, upperLayerOut

Small fixes in MACAddress, PPP, IPv4NetworkConfigurator, VoIPTool,
Mobility, BatteryModule


INET-1.99.4 (March 20, 2012)
----------------------------

This version contains mainly bugfixes, plus some features that did not make
into the previous release. Requires OMNeT++ 4.2 (version 4.2.1 suggested).

- Added IPv4NetworkConfigurator, a new network configurator for IPv4

  This is intended to replace both routing files (.irt/.mrt) and
  specialized network configurators like FlatNetworkConfigurator,
  and do much more.

  Covers address assignment (manual, automatic), adding manual routes,
  setting up static routing, optimizing the routing tables, etc.
  Unlike FlatNetworkConfigurator, it will generate per-interface
  addresses. Wireless networks are also supported.

- Added an IGMPv2 implementation, based on code contributed by Jesse Jones

Changes in IPv4 multicast routing:
- We now use reverse path forwarding (routing entry contains
  source address/mask, multicast group, parent (incoming) interface
  and the set of child (outgoing) interfaces).
- The new routing table enables to specify a separate multicast
  routing tree per source network and multicast group. (Old
  implementation used a common tree for each source.) The multicast
  routing tree is represented by IPv4MulticastRoute entries.
- IRoutingTable has been extended with methods manipulating the
  multicast routing entries. Notifications are generated, when
  the multicast routing table changes.
- IPv4 multicast routing algorithm uses the multicast routes
  for forwarding decisions.
- When HL does not specify the multicast interface for outgoing
  datagrams, then it is selected according to the routing table
  or the source address of the datagram.

Change from previous behavior:
- packets sent to a multicast address from higher layer: it used
  to go out on each interface that had a matching route in the
  routing table (unless mcast interface was specified by HL).
  Now it only goes out on the first match route's interface;
  if there's no match it goes out on the 1st multicast interface
  (unless mcast interface was specified by HL). If you want to
  send on multiple interfaces, you have to send multiple packets
  from the higher layer.

- multicast forwarding: no longer takes into account the routes
  in the unticast routing table that have mcast destinations.
  Only the (new format) multicast table is used. This new
  multicast routing table can only be configured with
  IPv4NetworkConfigurator, routing files don't support it.
- mobility: fixed infinite loop when nextChange is set to current
  simulation time

- base: Added createNode(), createLink() factory methods to Topology class.

- Enhancements in IPvXAddressResolver. The new resolver allows you
  to specify an interface based on which module the interface is
  connected to.

- Added a RoutingTableRecorder module that records all the changes
  in the routing table to a file.

- OSPF & BGP fix:
    - gateway is now correcty set on routing table entries.
    - eliminated redundant nextHop field from routing table entries

- Fixed routing table change notifications.

- Added printMulticastRoutingTable() to IRoutingTable

- Added IPingApp interface and support for more than one PingApp
  in a host.

- Changes in the UDP socket API:

  The first call on an UDP socket do not need to be bind() or connect()
  anymore. It is possible to create a socket and sending data immediately
  by calling sendTo(). It is also possible to set socket options before
  calling connect() or bind(). connect() can be called several times.
  However the bind() call fails if the socket is already bound.

- LDP: The LDP module now creates a separate UDP socket for each
  multicast interface of the node, sets the multicast interface
  on them, and sends a copy of LDP-Hellos via each socket.

- ICMP messages are correctly handled now in all TCP implementations
  (in LwIP and NSC, too)

See ChangeLogs in individual source folders for more information.


INET-1.99.3 (Feb 22, 2012)
--------------------------

With this release, we have started a review of all basic protocol modules in
the INET Framework, fixing bugs, refactoring for clarity and maintainability,
and implementing commonly needed missing features. A testing framework is also
falling into place. We have added ChangeLog files in each source directory
to make it easier to follow things for end users and contributors alike, and
we'll also be requiring ChangeLog entries from contributors who submit code
patches. ChangeLogs also include a brief history of the corresponding
components from the start; if you have fixes or amendments, please contact us.
This version of INET requires OMNeT++ 4.2 (version 4.2.1 suggested).

- Ethernet model improvements: EtherMAC refactored for better readability;
  added reconnect support, better PAUSE support, support for 40 Gigabit and
  100 Gigabit Ethernet; several bugfixes; regression and validation tests

- added predefined Ethernet link types: Eth10M, Eth100M, Eth1G, Eth10G,
  Eth40G, Eth100G

- IPv4 model improvements: better fragmentation and multicast support; IPv4
  module refactored for readability and maintainability; several bugfixes

- IPv4 routing table improvements: notification for routing entry changes
  (routing entry objects no longer need to be immutable); lookup performance
  optimization (routes are kept in decreasing prefix length order to speed up
  longest prefix match); cleanup and bugfixes

- IPv6 improvements: implemented Default Router Selection as specified in
  RFC 4861 6.3.6 (round-robin); tunneling is now available without xMIPv6;
  implemented datagram fragmentation/reassembly; IPv6 now works over PPP;
  several other bug fixes

- UDP: better multicast support and DSCP support (apps can specify ToS [IPv4] /
  Traffic Class [IPv6] byte); bug fixes

- PPPInterface, EthernetInterface: use queueType="" instead of queueType=
  "NoQueue" to turn off external queue module and use internal queue.

- Ieee80211, MANET routing: updated to latest INETMANET release:
  radio: added support for noise generators and configurable error models;
  802.11: Airtime Link Metric support; duplicate frame detection / filtering;
  support for prioritizing of multicast frames

- added WeightedFairQueue from INETMANET

- removed Ieee802.11 Mesh feature. It depended on too many upper layer
  protocols and features.

- statistics (@statistic properties) cleaned up in all modules: standardized
  on lower case statistics titles; record packet counts in a less confusing
  way (NOT as rcvdPkBytes:count); cleaned up recorder lists

- miscellaneous: timer usage optimized in DYMO_FAU; revised PingApp, e.g.
  printPing is now turned off by default; numerous bug fixes and improvements

- added a test suite (tests/); it contains fingerprint tests (for regression
  testing); smoke tests (crude regression tests); statistical tests (for
  validation); unit tests (of classes/modules); and other tests. We make most
  use of fingerprint tests, so they are probably in the best state.

See ChangeLogs in individual source folders for more information.


INET-1.99.2 (Nov 18, 2011)
--------------------------

Requires OMNeT++ 4.2 (final).

- Integrated Kristjan Jonsson's HttpTools project,
  http://code.google.com/p/omnet-httptools/

- The mobility models have been revised and brought in sync with their
  MiXiM versions; added 3D coordinate system from MiXim; added MoBAN mobility
  model from MiXiM.

- UDP: multicast, broadcast and ttl support; bugfixes; heavy API changes.
  It is now possible to receive broadcasts and multicasts. Implemented support
  for the following socket options: time-to-live (unicast and multicast),
  broadcast, multicast output interface, join multicast group, leave multicast
  group. Connect without bind is now supported (used to be an error).
  The cost of the above is changes in the way you talk to the UDP module:
  UDPControlInfo has been split to several classes (UDPBindCommand, UDPConnect-
  Command, UDPSendCommand, etc.), and the UDPSocket class has been redesigned.
  Check transport/udp/ChangeLog for detailed information.

- Apps: some standardization of parameter names, so that various modules don't
  call the same thing differently. Introduced the following names:
  'startTime', 'stopTime', 'sendInterval', 'localAddress', 'localPort'.
  E.g. the following parameters became 'sendInterval': 'messageFreq',
  'waitTime', 'packetInterval', 'interval', and 'waitInterval'.

- Added a 'stopTime' parameter to several apps: TelnetApp, UDPBasicApp,
  TCPBasicClientApp, IPvXTrafGen, EtherAppCli

- UDPBasicBurst revised

- Removed Blackboard (it was obsolete and out of use)

- Numerous bugfixes.


INET-1.99.1 (May 27, 2011)
--------------------------

This is a beta of a major feature release, with new models and a lot of
incompatible changes. It requires at least OMNeT++ 4.2b2.
If you are upgrading from an earlier INET version, expect to have
to revise your existing simulations.

- INET can now be compiled with various parts turned off. This is based on
  the new OMNeT++ Project Features facility, avaiable from 4.2b2, see
  http://www.omnet-workshop.org/2011/uploads/slides/OMNeT_WS2011_S3_P1_Varga.pdf
  slides 9-13. INET project features are defined in the .oppfeatures file;
  features can be turned on/off in Project -> Project Features... in the IDE.
  Not all features will compile on Windows: the ones that need to be turned off
  on Windows are TCP_NSC, TCP_lwIP, VoIPTool, MANET Routing, Mesh Networking.

- Integrated the following external packages: VoIPTool, xMIPv6.

- Several components were taken over from INETMANET: MANET routing, combined
  802.11a/b/g/e model, 802.11 mesh networking, obstacle model, several
  mobility models, battery model, globalARP feature. Multiple radio support
  has also been added to INET, loosely based on the INETMANET solution.

- NED-level cleanup of several compound modules: hosts, routers, NICs, APs,
  switches, etc. There were a lot of very similar modules that differred in the
  presence or type of one or more submodules, resulting in code duplication
  and confusion in general. Many variants have been eliminated, and the
  differences have been mapped to parameters, parametric or conditional
  submodules.

- ChannelController now deals only with radios and not hosts. This makes it
  possible to have hosts with several radio interfaces. The radios are
  registered/unregistered in the ChannelAccess module (previously host
  registration was done by the mobility modules). ChannelControl/ChannelAccess
  are now completely independent of the mobility modules. This means that if
  there is no mobility module present in a host, the host's displaystring
  will be used to set the static positions of the radios.

- Ethernet switch was moved under the linklayer/ethernet/switch directory.
  EtherHostQ is now called EtherHost. To have no queue in the Ethernet host,
  specify queueType="NoQueue" (which in fact inserts a dummy queue).
  In EtherSwitch, EtherHost and inside the EthernetInterface the
  csmacdSupport parameter can be used to switch between the full (EtherMAC)
  and the simplified (EtherMACFullDuplex) implementation.

- EthernetInterfaceFullDuplex removed. By default EthernetInterface is using
  EtherMACFullDuplex, a simplified MAC that does not support CSMA/CD and works
  only with point-to-point links. Use the EthernetInterface with
  csmacdSupport=true to turn on CSMA/CD support (EtherMAC).

- IPv4-related modules and classes whose names started with "IP" were renamed
  to start with "IPv4", to be more explicit and more future-proof. IP->IPv4,
  IPAddress->IPv4Address, IPControlInfo->IPv4ControlInfo, IPRoute->IPv4Route,
  IPDatagram->IPv4Datagram, etc.

- Renamed routingTableFile to routingTable in RoutingTable6. Added default
  parameter value. You no longer need to specify **.routingTableFile =
  xmldoc("empty.xml") and have an empty.xml file in the model directory.
  OMNeT++ 4.2 supports the xml("<inlinexml/>") syntax; we now use that for
  the default value.

- New PcapRecorder module (in StandardHost) for recording traffic to a pcap file.
  It is intended as a replacement for the old TCPDump module.

- StandardHost and Router now have a common base (containing Link~ and
  NetworkLayer) Wireless~ and AdhocHost is derived from StandardHost. All of
  them (including Router) support multiple wireless, Ethernet, PPP and
  external interfaces (i.e. multiple wireless radios are supported using
  different channels)

- Several modules - especially inside StandardHost - are now conditional
  (using NED's new "conditional submodule" feature), and will be instantiated
  only if needed. For example, TCP is only instantiated if there are TCP
  applications configured for the host.

- Router and StandardHost have optional mobility support. The mobility module
  is created only if there are wireless cards present in the node (numRadios>0).
  Of course WirelessHost and AdhocHost have mobility by default. You can configure
  the mobility type using the "mobilityType" parameter. BasicMobility have
  been renamed to NullMobility (resulting stationary nodes). There is a dummy
  mobility type called NoMobility which does not have any C++ implementation.
  Nodes that do not need mobility support (i.e. no radios) should set their type
  to NoMobility.

- FailedRouter has been removed (was a trivial node). BurstHost moved to the
  example directory (it was not generic and was used only by a single example).
  MobileHost has been removed; use AdhocHost instead as a drop-in replacement.

- Network Interface Cards (Ieee80211Nic, EthernetInterface and PPPInterface)
  now support input and output hook modules that implement the IHook interface.
  Hooks are useful for simulating packet drops, duplication or measuring thruput.
  The number of hook modules can be controlled with the numInputHooks /
  numOutputHooks parameters, and the hook's type via typename.
  An example: that installs two hooks in the input path of PPP:
    **.ppp[*].numInputHooks = 2
    **.ppp[*].inputHook[0].typename = "DropsGenerator"
    **.ppp[*].inputHook[1].typename = "ThruputMeter"

- Network interfaces can specify a queueType paramater. Possible values:
  DropTailQueue, DropTailQoSQueue, REDQueue, NoQueue.
  To disable queueing, use NoQueue: **.ppp[*].queueType = "NoQueue"

- PPPInterfaceNoQueue and EthernetInterfaceNoQueue have been removed; use the
  queueType="NoQueue" parameter in the interfaces.

- TCP, UDP and SCTP implementations are now pluggable; you can select the
  implementation with the tcpType, udpType and sctpType parameters in the host.
  Modules must implement ITCP, IUDP and ISCTP interface and the specify
  the implementing NED type in the parameter. At the moment SCTP and UDP
  have only one implementation. TCP has TCP (the default INET implementation),
  TCP_NSC (Network Simulation Cradle) and TCP_lwIP (the lightweight IP stack).

- AccessPoint has been generalized. Now it supports both (multiple) wireless
  and ethernet ports. Relaying between ethernet and wireless ports is now
  supported. A relay unit is created only if more than one ports are present
  in the AccessPoint, i.e. having a single radio and no ethernet connections
  will fall back to a single wireless NIC without a relay unit. Having no radio
  and several ethernet ports connected will practically result in an ethernet
  switch.

- Wireless NICs now should implement IWirelessNIC. Now we have only a single
  Ieee80211Nic implementation instead of the 5 variants we have previously.
  Management type (Adhoc, AccessPoint, Station, AccessPointSimplified and
  StationSimplified) can be configured using the mgmtType parameter of the NIC
  (instead of having separate NIC types for each.)

- Multiple radios on independent channels are now supported by all nodes. See
  the wireless/multiradio example.

- The radio infrastucture have been refactored. All radios should now implement
  the IRadio interface. They are now pluggable. RadioModel can be configured
  also via a module parameter. The attenuationModel parameter was moved from
  the radio to ChannelController (it is now global) and renamed to propagationModel.
  Several new propagation model have been added (see NED file docs).

- Removed the TCPSpoofingHost node. Use instead StandardHost with the
  tcpType="TCPSpoof" parameter.

- NAMTrace and NAMTraceWriter modules have been moved to the obsolete directory.
  Turn on event logging instead and use the eventlog animator in the IDE. Event
  logging can be turned on with --record-eventlog=true from the command line or
  using the toolbar button in Tkenv. Once the .elog file is generated, right
  click on it in the IDE and select Open with / Animation Player.

- ChannelInstaller module has been removed. Implemented a ThruputMeteringChannel that
  extends DatarateChannel. It adds thruputDisplayFormat that allows showing different
  statistics along the source gate of the channel. Specifying "" as display format
  results the same behavior as DatarateChannel (with no performance penalty).
  If you want to gather statistics, you do not need this channel. The DatarateChannel
  already emits signals "channelBusy", "messageSent" and "messageDiscarded"
  that can be used to calculate different statistics. Use "opp_run -h neddecls"
  to see what statistics are provided by default. e.g in INI file use
  **.channel.throughput.result-recording-modes=+last to store all channel's
  thoughput values as scalars.


INET-1.99.0 (March 3, 2011)
---------------------------

This is a beta of a major feature release, with new models and also incompatible
changes. If you are upgrading from an earlier INET version, expect to have
to revise your existing omnetpp.ini files and possibly NED/C++ files as well.

The most significant changes:

- replaced cOutVector and recordScalar() with signal-based statistics
  recording in most places (see @statistic properties in NED files)

- support for more than one type of tcpApp and udpApp in StandardHost
  (elimination of tcpAppType/udpAppType parameters)

- Interfaces renamed to start with letter "I". BasicMobility -> IMobility,
  TCPApp->ITCPApp, UDPApp->IUDPApp, SCTPApp->ISCTPApp, MacRelayUnit->IMacRelayUnit,
  Radio->IRadio, Ieee80211Mgmt->IIeee80211Mgmt, OutputQueue->IOutputQueue,
  INetworkInterface->IWiredNic

- added new AdhocHost for basic node types used in adhoc networks. Supports
  mobility and multiple wireless radios. It obsoletes the MFMobileHost
  (use AdhocHost with **.wlan.type-name=Nic80211) and MobileHost (use AdhocHost
  with default parameters)

- added new AccessPoint module with configurable wireless, ethernet and relay
  unit and mobility module types. Obsoletes: WirelessAP and WirelessAPWithEth
  (use AccessPoint), WirelessAPSimplified and WirelessAPWithEthSimplified
  (use AccessPoint with **.wlan.type-name=Ieee80211NicAPSimplified),
  WirelessHost (use StandardHost with numRadios=1) and WirelessHostSimplified
  (use StandardHost with numRadios=1 and **.wlan.type-name=Ieee80211NicSTASimplified)

- in StandardHost and Router it is now possible to configure what wireless, ethernet, ppp
  or external interfaces are used. Wired interfaces must implement IWiredNic, and wireless
  modules must implement IWirelessNic. Mobility type and number of wireless cards (default=0)
  can be also configured via **.wlan.type-name and **.mobility.type-name. The use of
  interfaces obsoletes several older modules which differed only in interface types
  (like WirelessHost or ExtRouter)

- enhanced Router to support external interfaces, ppp, wireless, ethernet etc. This module
  is similar to StandardHost except it does not contain the transport layer and application layer
  protocols (plus IPForwarding is enabled by default). Obsoletes the ExtRouter module (use Router)

- NetworkLayer and NetworkLayer6: added dummy modules that implement the IHook interface
  at the bottom of network layer (above link layer). This allows one to insert
  thruput metering, packet drop and duplication modules etc. without modifying the module.
  New modules implementing IHook: ThruputMeter, DropsGenerator, DuplicatesGenerator and Nop.
  Use **.networkLayer.outputHook.type-name = "ThruputMeter" to configure them (use inputHook
  for incoming traffic)

- added global ARP optimization. If you are not interested in modeling the traffic of ARP protocol,
  it is now possible to use a much faster implementation by specifying (by Alfonso Ariza Quintana):
  **.networkLayer.arp.globalARP=true

- multiple radios (on multiple channels) are supported by StandardHost, AdhocHost
  and Router if ChannelControllerExtended is used in the network.

- point-to-point Ethernet links can now use normal DatarateChannels
  (EtherMAC's txrate parameter was removed)

- added a new TCP model that directly wraps the lwIP stack (without
  NetworkSimulationCradle (NSC) overhead)

- TCP transfer mode (bytecount / cPacket / bytestream) is now
  controlled by the app via a control info field (the sendQueueClass/
  receiveQueueClass TCP module parameters were removed); this works across
  all three TCP models (native OMNeT++, NSC, lwIP)

- experimental support for application-imposed TCP flow control (i.e.
  implementation of "socket read" calls; this is not yet in the
  "integration" branch)

- brand new BGPv4 model, contributed by Helene Lageber

- OSPF model: mass renaming and code formatting to make code conform
  to the rest of INET in coding style

- fix: Ieee80211DataFrame was missing the LLC SNAP header, so all
  802.11 data frames were simulated with 8 bytes less length than
  they should have (this will slightly modify simulation results)

- RTP model refactoring to make it use msg files and a control info
  based interface toward apps

- some improvements INETMANET implemented have been taken over into
  INET (also to decrease INETMANET maintenance cost)

- started taking over xMIPv6's modification to the base INET, so
  xMIPv6 won't need to patch INET

- added basic "New INET simulation" wizards which appear under
  File|New in the IDE

- started working on an INET User Manual (see inet.omnetpp.org)

- added an initial test suite with tests for Ethernet, 802.11 and TCP
  (uses OMNeT++'s opp_test utility and the "omnetpp" R plugin for
  scripted checking of simulation results; not yet in "integration")

- many smaller bug fixes and refactoring, mostly invisible for users

In more details:

* Reorganized StandardHost:

Several changes were introduced to make the basic building blocks of
simulation (StandardHost, AdhocHost, Router etc.) more configurable,
without the need to copy and modify the modules or derive a new module
type. Applications, tcp type, nic, mobility, routing protocols can be
configured using parameters or the **.type-name=typename in the .ini file.

* Ethernet point-to-point links:

In the old code, datarate of Ethernet channels were to be set to zero, and
the real datarate given in the txrate parameter of EtherMAC. This was to
work around a limitation in OMNeT++ 3.x's channel support. In the new code,
the txrate parameter is gone, and the datarate should be set on the
channel. This is consistent with e.g. PPP. This requires non-backward
compatible changes to models.

* Support for several different TCP/UDP apps in StandardHost

In the old code, tcpApp[] is declared as
  tcpApp[numTcpApps]: <tcpAppType> like TCPApp;
which has the side effect that when using StandardHost, all apps have to be
the same type (the one in the tcpAppType parameter). OMNeT++ 4.x supports
setting the types one-by-one, using the following syntax:
  tcpApp[numTcpApps]: <> like TCPApp;
and in the ini file, you have to write
  **.tcpApp[0].type-name = "inet.applications.tcpapp.TCPBasicClientApp"
  **.tcpApp[1].type-name = "inet.applications.tcpapp.TCPEchoApp"
  **.tcpApp[*].type-name = "inet.applications.tcpapp.TCPSinkApp"
  etc.
The existing tcpAppType/udpAppType/sctpAppType parameters would be removed.
However, this also means that existing ini files have to be changed.
If they are not updated, the simulation will not work.

* Multiple TCP implementations, and related parameterization changes

INET now supports Network Simulation Cradle (NSC; wraps several FreeBSD,
Linux and lwIP stacks), and we have an lwIP-based TCP module as well
(without the NSC limitations and overhead); the NED types are TCP, TCP_NSC,
TCP_lwip. Any of them can be selected in StandardHost, via the tcpType
parameter (the tcp module is now declared as "tcp: <tcpType> like ITCP").
tcpType defaults to the native OMNeT++ TCP module.

The sendQueueClass/rcvQueueClass parameters are gone. They were used to
select what to transmit inside TCP segments: C++ objects (cPacket) or byte
counts only. Now, this can (must) be specified per-connection by the app
layer, because the app knows best what it requires. Also, instead of two
class names now there is a single enum value; it should be put into the
dataTransferMode field of TCPOpenCommand. Potential values are:

   TCP_TRANSFER_UNDEFINED = 0;  // Invalid value
   TCP_TRANSFER_BYTECOUNT = 1;  // Transmit byte counts only
   TCP_TRANSFER_OBJECT = 2;     // Transmit the application packet C++ objects
   TCP_TRANSFER_BYTESTREAM = 3; // Transmit actual bytes

Ideally, all 3 TCP implementations should understand all 3 transfer modes;
currently OBJECT support is missing from TCP_NSC.


INET-20110225
-------------

- additional statistics in the SCTP module (Alberto Cortes)

- fix for SCTP Path.Max.Retrans threshold problem (Alberto Cortes)

- minor changes in #includes to ensure compatibility with upcoming OMNeT++ 4.2


INET-20100723
-------------

- TCP improvement (Thomas Reschka, Zoltan Bojthe).
  * implemented RFC 1323 (TCP Extensions for High Performance):
      - Window Scale option
      - Timestamps option (Round-Trip Time Measurement - RTTM)
      - Protect Against Wrapped Sequence Numbers (PAWS)
      - added a PAWS modification according to the latest proposal
        of the tcplw@cray.com list (Braden 1993/04/26)
  * implemented missing part of RFC 2581: Re-starting Idle Connections
  * various fixes
  * see details in src/transport/tcp/ChangeLog.

- added examples for new TCP features (Thomas Reschka):
  * examples/inet/tcptimestamps
  * examples/inet/tcpwindowscale

- added NetAnimTrace module (Andras Varga). This module can be used to record
  input for the NetAnim program (http://www.nsnam.org/wiki/index.php/NetAnim)

- Ieee80211Radio: added a shadowing component for the path loss reception model
  (Nikos Simantirakis). This is a random variable has a normal distribution
  in dB and results to -normal distribution in mW. This is a widespread and
  common model used for reproducing shadowing effects (Rappaport, T. S. (2002),
  Communications - Principles and Practice, Prentice Hall PTR).

- bugfix and small improvements in SCTP, TCPSessionApp, ThruputMeter

- cosmetic changes in many other files (comments, indentation, compiler warning
  elimination, variable renaming, etc.)


INET-20100323
-------------

- added "label" annotations to gates and modules to support the adaptive palette
  filtering and gate matching in the connection chooser (OMNeT++ 4.1).

- updated SCTP implementation by Michael Tuexen, Irene Ruengeler and
  Thomas Dreibholz

- added support for Sam Jensen's Network Simulation Cradle,
  http://www.wand.net.nz/~stj2/nsc/, which makes real-world TCP stacks available
  in simulations. Currently NSC supports the FreeBSD, OpenBSD, lwIP and Linux
  stacks. The TCP_NSC module (transport/tcp_nsc) is a drop-in replacement for the
  normal TCP module (transport/tcp), and can be activated with a single parameter
  setting in StandardHost. See src/transport/tcp_nsc, 3rdparty/README, and
  examples/inet/tcpclientserver.

- added TCP SACK and New Reno implementation by Thomas Reschka. The original TCP
  version is still available as TCP_old. See src/transport/tcp/ChangeLog for details.


INET-20090325
-------------

- tagged version for OMNeT++ 4.0 final
- reworked build system to create shared library by default
- added SCTP from Michael Tuexen and Irene Ruengeler


INET-20080920
-------------

Internal snapshot, for omnetpp-4.0b6.

- performance optimization in all queue modules: remember output gate pointer
  instead of looking up gate by name for each send()

- Ieee80211AgentSTA.cc: randomize the start time of the scanning process.
  (Randomizing the time of sending the first beacon in Ieee80211MgmtAP.cc
  was already done earlier.)

- IP: set TTL to 1 on new datagram if the destination address is link local
  multicast, to prevent broadcasting to non-neighbouring routers.

- several bugfixes


INET-20080709
-------------

Internal snapshot, for omnetpp-4.0b3.

- interface table and routing table are now accessed via the C++ interfaces
  IInterfaceTable and IRoutingTable. This is done to reduce interdependencies
  among modules; more specifically, to allow users implement their own
  InterfaceTables and RoutingTables and plug them into INET simulations,
  without any change to the base INET.

- PPP and EtherMAC2: performance: don't fire tx begin/end notifications if
  no one is listening; remember output gate pointer instead of looking it up
  by name for each send

- UDPEchoApp: messageLength parameter now understood in bytes not bits

- RoutingTable: implemented routing cache and other optimizations


INET-20080630
-------------

Internal snapshot, for omnetpp-4.0b2.

- to enable and encourage extending INET via subclassing (as opposed to
  patching), nearly all member functions made virtual (except in data classes
  like IPAddress), and also, private sections in most classes were changed to
  protected.

- some refactoring on TCP, UDP and IP, to allow subclassing of TCP, UDP and IP
  packets: packets are now created via factory methods that can be overridden
  if needed

- AbstractQueue (base class for IP and other modules) made more efficient: now it
  doesn't schedule a timer if (when) serviceTime is zero.

- IPAddress class made more efficient [code from Ingmar Baumgart, OverSim]

- parsim: added pack/unpack functions for IPAddress, IPv6Address, IPvXAddress

- InterfaceTable: added deleteInterface(). This also causes RoutingTable to
  drop routes that correspond to the deleted interface.

- RoutingTable: wrapped naked data members of IPRoute into getters/setters;
  enforce by returning "const" pointers that routes already added cannot be
  changed any more (one must delete and re-add it)

- InterfaceTable: created a getInterfaceById() method, NOT to be
  confused with getInterface(pos)! Ids are stable after deletions,
  unlike 0..getNumInterfaces()-1 indices, and reliable/safe unlike
  InterfaceEntry* pointers

- InterfaceTable and RoutingTable now fire proper notifications on changes:
  NF_INTERFACE_CREATED, NF_INTERFACE_DELETED, NF_INTERFACE_STATE_CHANGED,
  NF_INTERFACE_CONFIG_CHANGED; NF_IPv4_ROUTE_ADDED, NF_IPv4_ROUTE_DELETED,
  NF_IPv6_ROUTE_ADDED, NF_IPv6_ROUTE_DELETED, etc.

- NotificationBoard: added hasSubscribers(int category) method, to allow for
  optimizing out firing change notifications if there's no one listening.


INET-20080624
-------------

Internal snapshot, for omnetpp-4.0b2.

- updated for OMNeT++ 4.0b2

- extensive renaming: added "get" verb to getter methods in most classes;
  also eliminated @addGetVerb(true) from message classes

- revived the RTP model: starting from Ahmed Ayadi's patch, migrated the code
  to OMNeT++ 4.0, and started some refactoring (started introducing .msg files
  for handcoded message classes; not yet finished)


INET-20080606
-------------

Internal snapshot, for omnetpp-4.0b1.

- directory structure reorganized

- converted to OMNeT++ 4.0

- some refactoring (parameter/gate name changes, etc)

- IP/IPv6: do not schedule a timer if processing time is zero (change made
  in base/AbstractQueue)

- FlatNetworkConfigurator: use @node() property to determine which modules are
  network nodes (removed moduleTypes, nonIPModuleTypes parameters)


INET-20061020
-------------

- new example network: Examples/Ethernet/ARPTest (old ARPTest renamed)

- bugfixes: AbstractRadio (Dave Symonds); Ieee80211 (also reported by Dave)


INET-20060912a
--------------

- improvements on the wireless infrastructure: support for multiple channels
  and channel switching by NICs; account for finite radio wave propagation speed

- added new 802.11 model which also supports infrastructure mode; see
  NetworkInterfaces/Ieee80211. Even for ad-hoc mode, Ieee80211Mac is recommended
  over the older Mac80211 from MF.

- added Ieee80211Radio which supersedes SnrEval80211 and Decider80211.

- added EtherDuplexMAC, a simplified Ethernet implementation for full duplex
  point-to-point operation mode when CSMA/CD is not in use.

- makefiles within Examples/ have been largely unnecessary because all
  simulations just invoke bin/INET. Realizing these makefiles have been
  confusing to many people, they got removed now. The target to generate
  them is still present in makemakefiles in case someone needs it.

- several other fixes


INET-20060330
-------------

- checked in the new MPLS, RSVP-TE and LDP models, written/rewritten by
  Vojta Janota

- new model: Network/Quagga. This is port of the Quagga routing daemon to the
  INET Framework. Currently provides RIP and OSPFv2 routing. Quagga itself is
  a fork of Zebra. (Ported to INET by Vojta Janota)

- new model: Network/OSPFv2. This is a new OSPF implementation.
  (author: Andras Babos)

- UDP rewritten: similarly to TCP, dispatching is now done inside UDP, and
  apps now identify sockets with a sockId; implemented ephemeral port reuse

- UDPSocket class added to facilitate talking to the UDP model from apps;
  analogous to TCPSocket (thanks to Michael Tuexen and Vojta Janota for
  feedback)

- new snapshot of the IPv6 module (by Wei Yang Ng)

- added ability to write nam traces (Util/NAMTraceWriter, World/NAMTrace);
  feature originally implemented by Vojta Janota (and refactored by Andras,
  so bugs are very likely mine)

- implemented ThruputMeteringChannel which can display #packets, pk/sec etc
  on the links; and ChannelInstaller as a temporary solution to install
  ThruputMeteringChannel instead of the built-in BasicChannel class.

- updated module class ctors/dtors for OMNeT++ 3.2; changed msg->length()/8 to
  msg->byteLength() and msg->setLength(8*bytes) to msg->setByteLength(bytes),
  etc.

- TCP: Reno bugs fixed (reported by Pascal Rousseau); TCPMessageBasedSendQueue
  seqNo bug fixed (Adam Hudson); implemented reuse of ephemeral ports;
  fixed incorrect behaviour when ACK of SYN carries data (reported by Joachim
  Meichle); fixed minor issue that when the user issued CLOSE, transition to
  FIN_WAIT_1 was done immediately and not deferred until all data are sent.

- added Applications/TCPApp/TCPSpoof

- hosts have now the same queues as routers (reported by Michael Tuexen)

- ev replaced with EV in every module (speed increase in Express mode)

- NetworkLayer(6): gates towards interfaces renamed to ifOut[]/ifIn[]

- FlatNetworkConfigurator internals refactored

- added another network configurator, NetworkConfigurator

- RoutingTable: routerId selection moved from stage 1 to stage 3 (you may
  need to revise your code if it depends on routerId)


INET-20050922
-------------
- patched for OMNeT++ 3.2:
  - added '=NULL' default value to all args of hand-code module constructors
    (2 or 3 places)
  - RSVPPacket.h: dup() return type has to be cPolymorphic with OMNeT++ 3.2;
    fixed it using '#if OMNETPP_VERSION<0x0302...#else...#endif'

  Note: THIS IS THE ONLY RELEASE WHICH IS COMPATIBLE WITH BOTH 3.1 AND 3.2

- UDP dispatchByPort bug fixed; further smaller fixes

- IPv6 updated (still unfinished)

- NOT YET FIXED:
  - TCP bug http://www.omnetpp.org/listarchive/msg05687.php
  - incorrect handling of host queues (Michael Tuexen)


INET-20050720
-------------

- module types renamed for consistency: PPPModule -> PPP, TCPMain -> TCP,
  UDPProcessing -> UDP

- C++ methods renamed: isNull() -> isUnspecified() in IPAddress, IPv6Addres,
  IPvXAddress

- created two subdirs under Transport/TCP: flavours and queues, and moved
  the appropriate cc/h files there. The structure of the TCP model should
  now be much more obvious to readers. Also added READMEs explaining things.

- TCP fixes: raise an error (~EADDRINUSE) on attempt to create more than one
  connections to listen on the same port

- implemented REDQueue

- beginnings of a "Getting started with TCP" doc


INET-20050705
-------------
- TCP improvements: separate congestion control behaviour classes
  TCPTahoe, TCPReno and TCPNoCongestionControl provided, for teaching
  purposes (their code is very short, to the point, and extensively
  commented).

- TCP: fixed bogus RTT calculation and other other bugs; also, sequence
  numbers are now recorded into omnetpp.vec, so with Plove one can create
  sequence number plots like Sally Floyd's [thanks to Ahmet Sekercioglu
  for help!]

- still TCP: fixed the bug which caused closing of a connection to be reported
  2MSL (240s) later to the user.

- Added support for drop-tail router queues, and queues with QoS support
  based on DS Code Point; RED in preparation (see Network/Queue)

- Added wireless and mobility support (based on Mobility Framework code),
  including 802.11b ad-hoc mode MAC, and several new mobility models
  (also new to MF). Supports mobility traces from BonnMotion and ANSim.

- Contract directories introduced: Transport/Contract, Network/Contract
  and NetworkInterfaces/Contract. These directories contain a minimal set
  of classes necessary for using one layer's functionality from higher layers.

- Added notification mechanism: modules can now notify each other about
  "events" such as routing table changes, interface status changes (up/down),
  interface configuration changes, wireless handovers, changes in the state
  of the wireless channel, mobile node position changes, etc. Notification
  works via the NotificationBoard which replaces the Blackboard.

- InterfaceTable introduced: it stores all interface configuration that was
  previously stored in RoutingTable. Per-interface data structure was also
  split into protocol independent (InterfaceEntry) and protocol dependent
  (IPv4InterfaceData, IPv6InterfaceData) parts.

- ScenarioManager introduced (experimental, in World/ subdirectory):
  it addresses the need for simulating scenarios like "what if this cable
  breaks at t=20s", or "what if traffic intensity grows at t=100s".
  Scenario is described in an XML file.

- Ping and VideoStream applications added (from IPv6SuiteWithINET)

- ARP got moved up from L2 to L3; this is to prepare for IPv6 support (IPv6
  doesn't need ARP, so we can no longer have it as part of the network
  interfaces)

- prepared for IPv6: application layer, transport layer and IPv6 contract
  taken over from IPv6SuiteWithINET-20050502

- work in progress: from-scratch IPv6 implementation by Wei Yang Ng (Monash
  University) and Andras Varga

- added INET_API definitions to classes, so that one can build a DLL that can
  be loaded dynamically into INET.exe (hint: compile DLL code *without*
  /DBUILDING_INET, and link them with INET.lib! then add [General]/load-libs=
  to omnetpp.ini.)

- Network/IPv4d subdirectory finally thrown out. It was a bad idea to
  implement IP with a dozen small modules in the first place.

- added files called !WORK_IN_PROGRESS! with some explanations to
  directories which contain unfinished simulation models.


INET-20050404 released
----------------------
- Updated to omnetpp-3.1.
- patches from Michael Tuexen


INET-20050102
-------------
- updated to omnetpp-3.0


INET-20041007
-------------
- package renamed to INET Framework


IPSuite-20041007
----------------
- practically a complete rewrite of IPSuite took place 03/2004 through
  10/2004. See change log at http://ctieware.eng.monash.edu.au/twiki/
  bin/view/Simulation/IPSuiteLogOfChanges


Preparations for rewriting IPSuite, 09/2003-03/2004
---------------------------------------------------
2004-02-04  Andras Varga

        * got it compiled with omnetpp-3.0pre1. changes:
        - added #include <iostream>, using std::ostream at a couple of places
        - deprecated receiveOn(), receiveNewOn() no longer exists, replaced by:
                msg = receive();
                ASSERT(dfmsg->arrivedOn("fromEnqHook"));  // FIXME revise this
        * removed ProcessorManager altogether

2003-09-19  Andras Varga

        * added the MPLS/LDP/RSVP-TE models created by Xuan Thang Nguyen
        (Xuan.T.Nguyen@uts.edu.au) at UTS (University of Technology, Sydney).
        See http://charlie.it.uts.edu.au/~tkaphan/xtn/capstone/

        * did IPsuite modifications necessary fo MPLS. Modularity is preserved:
        it is still possible to build IPSuite without the MPLS models.

2003-09-18  Andras Varga

        * merged patches for compiling with MSVC.

        * module descriptions (comments) added to/rearranged in all NED files
        for documentation generation with new opp_neddoc.

        * DIRECTORY STRUCTURE WAS REARRANGED along the lines of the OSI layers,
        and also to make it consistent with the IPv6Suite. Hopefully every file
        is now where one would expect to find it.

        * added makemake.cmd for generating Makefile.vc's (using opp_nmakemake)
        for building with MSVC, and makemake for generating Unix makefiles

        * lots of minor fixes to make the code compile with MSVC.
        Note: for compatibility with MSVC6.0,
          1. return type of dup() should ALWAYS be cObject* (and cannot be the
             actual class name)
          2. class variables cannot be initialized (even const or
             static const ones) within the class declaration.

        * updated for recent OMNeT++ versions: added ",row" to vector module
        display strings; removed className() methods, etc.

        * FIXME: KIDSRouter was missing from the original IPSuite! KIDSNw1
        didn't compile. I temporarily substituted a copy of NextHopRouter.

2003-09-17  Andras Varga

        * taken ipsuite-20021124-src.tgz and started improving it.


IPSuite's change log, 2000-2001
-------------------------------
Before Andras Varga took over the development in 2003, IPSuite was
created and developed at University of Karlsruhe, Germany.

2001-12-10  Ulrich Kaage  <kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de>

        * Global changes for OMNeT++ 2.2 conformance:
        copy constructor -> const argument
        virtual long length(const ) -> virtual long length(const) const
        virtual int numInitStages() -> virtual int numInitStages () const
        virtual char *className() -> virtual const char* className() const
        virtual cObject *dup() -> virtual cObject *dup() const
        cObject& operator=(cObject& o) -> cObject& operator=(const cObject& o)

2001-08-31  Ulrich Kaage  <kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de>

        * CVS-Tag da-kussaether: Work on TCP by Rolf Kussaether;
        implementation of TCP flavours Reno (fast recovery) and New Reno.

2001-03-19 Verena Kahmann <kahmann@telematik.informatik.uni-karlsruhe.de>
        * deleted all queues and behaviors except FIFO* and the basic behaviors.
        Maybe we have to apply some extra cleaning still.
2000-12-19  Ulrich Kaage  <kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de>

        * recent (standalone) TCP model is merged into the ip-suite. The
        simple test network is now located in ./Networks/TCPTester

2000-12-13  Ulrich Kaage  <kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de>

        * makeipsuite: replaced by top level Makefile

        * rundemo: front end for launching all available simulations

        * Makefile: Top level makefile to create Makefiles from Makefile.in
        in all subdirectories

        * removed mmake in subdirectories and replaced them by Makefile.in

2000-11-22  Ulrich Kaage  <kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de>

        * CREDITS: Put your name here if you have contributed to the
        OMNeT++ Internet Protocol Suite
