InternetCloud
=============

This component can be used to model the throughput, packet delay and packet drop of 
the Internet or other large scale networks.

The idea behind this component is loosely based on the DELFOI component originally
developed by Philipp Berndt.

The cloud component is actually a "router" component with some special abilities 
to introduce processing delay and limit the darate between its ports. Routing tables
and IP addresses for the interfaces must be configured by the IPv4NetworkConfigurator
module.      

The component can model the packet delay and packet drop behavior of the 
internet by specifying the packet delay, datarate and packet loss parameters 
for each in- and outbound connection pair (path) in an XML configuration file. 

Path parameters my contain NED expressions containing random variables. They are
re-evaluated each time a packet is processed (i.e. they behave as 'volatile' 
parameters). This allows the specification of random delay and datarate values.

Path parameters are configured by the <traffic> elements in the configuration file.
A <traffic> element can specify match expressions for its source and destination endpoints
in addition to the base path parameters. Whenever a packet arrives, the parameters from the
first matching <traffic> element will be used to determine the parameter values.

The Internet is modeled as independent paths connecting the input and output gates 
in the cloud. In real life, a packet travels through several routers where each router 
introduces a processing delay. Additionally links between the routers limit the
maximum throughput possible along the path.

IN ------> R1 ------> R2 ------> R3 ------> OUT 
     R1    D1    R2   D2    R3   D3    R4
     
The total processing delay is: Dpath = sum(D1,D2,D3)

The maximum usable datarate on the path is Rpath = min(R1,R2,R3,R4)
(i.e. the bottleneck on the path)

Limitations:
     
 - In a real life scenario, routers and links are shared among different paths (i.e. 
   delay values on different paths are not independent of each other because they share
   links between, and queues inside the routers). This is NOT modeled in the current 
   implementation.

Future enhancements:

 - At the moment the the configuration must be created manually as an XML file. 
   In future it would be possible to create the configuration, based on data 
   derived from real measurement of the internet. (i.e. using a script to convert 
   speedtest.net data to the correct configuration file format)
   
 - The model can be extended in future to handle several different states of the 
   "internet" allowing to implement a state model. The configuration format 
   supports several independent "parameter sets" but only the first set is used
   at the moment.
   Later  
   
